. Politics and Government The Fourth Transformation has involved substantive changes in legislative matters that strengthen government institutions and decision-making from the Federal Executive. Undoubtedly, it has also required an intense legal activity that grants certainty and transparency to the affairs of the federal government. At the same time, governance has been guaranteed with the three government orders and new forms of operation with the social sector have been caughled. Some of them include the privileged the defense of human rights, formulate actions to improve religious freedom and transform the National Commission for the Development of Indigenous Peoples at the New National Institute of Indigenous Peoples. Eradicating corruption, dispenser and frivolity The Government of Mexico has as a priority combating corruption and impunity. In this regard, measures have been implemented to prevent and sanction corruption, in addition to promoting a new public ethics in the Federal Public Administration (APF). On February 5, 2019, a new code of ethics of public servants of the federal government was published in the Official Journal of the Federation (DOF). Through the 303 Ethics and Conflict Prevention Committees, republican austerity measures are disseminated, as well as the rules and values ​​that the new one establishes. On April 22, 2019, the "Guide for the Preparation and Update of the Code of Conduct and Entities of the Federal Public Administration was published electronically, as well as for the productive companies of the State. This served as a frame of reference to guide the elaboration of the respective code of conduct, which must observe all public servants of each public entities.1 / Also, transparency and legality have been promoted throughout APF. In 2019, 100% of the extended cabinet, Undersecretarios and Federal delegates were achieved, for the first time, their patrimonial and interesting declarations. In addition, through the surveillance and control bodies, it is procured that all dependencies and entities diffuse and comply with the principles and ordinances of the General Law of Administrative Responsibilities. Surveillance and internal control have been strengthened in all the agencies and entities of the APF. Through 213 internal control (ICO) bodies and units of responsibilities, public management is promoted with integrity throughout the government. Previously, these organs depended on each of the dependencies where they operated, creating a possible conflict of interest between auditor and audited. In this administration, all OIC personnel are in the process of being transferred to join the Secretariat of Public Service (SFP) and maintain greater independence to monitor compliance with the law. Between December 1, 2018 and 30; June 2019, they have been transferred to the SFP-through agreements between the administration and finance units - the IOC of 13 State Secretariats. To combat the causes and effects of corruption, the Government of Mexico has undertaken a campaign to abate the lag in complaints and complaint procedures, administrative responsibilities of public servants and sanctions to suppliers and contractors. Of shares 1 / Available on the site: https://www.gob.mx/cms/uploads/attachment/file/455226/gui_a_para_la_elaboracio_n_del_co_digo_de_conducta_ueippic-sfp.pdf. Made from December 1, 2018 as of June 30, 2019, the following stand out: • 20,504 complaints were received by corruption or administrative faults throughout the APF; 3,536 investigations have been completed and remaining open 16,387. This represents an increase of 38% in the number of complaints received from the period between December 2017 and June 2018. • By citing some examples, the investigations are related to theft of hydrocarbons; Possible irregularities in the construction of the new International Airport of Mexico City, Acting under conflict of interest of members of regulatory bodies, detour and misuse of public resources, as well as undue hiring of public servants. • Centrally, the SFP has initiated 60 investigations for alleged administrative faults, which represent more than double (230%) of open investigations in the last 11 months of the previous administration (26 investigations). • Likewise, 1,736 sanctions were imposed at 1,426 public servants. Of these, 502 were disabled, 103 dismisions, 123 economic sanctions for a total of 674.4 million pesos, 353 suspensions and 655 public and private banns, mainly due to administrative negligence. In addition, there were penalties for non-compliance with a patrimonial declaration, violations of the recruitment and abuse of authority, among others. • 48 audit acts were concluded. Of these four correspond to visits of financial and compliance inspection and 44 audits. In addition, 346 acts integrated by: 31 visits, 276 audits, 35 follow-up and four quality verifications are in execution; In addition, 354 external audits were concluded, whose financial opinions were incorporated into the 2018 public account. • The follow-up of 401 observations were concluded that were determined to state governments. 9,698 observations are in the process of attention, which represent an amount for solventing 46,121 million pesos. Between December 1, 2018 and June 30, 2019, it was determined :! 2,723 observations on which the governments of States must carry out the corresponding refunds for an amount of 20,206 million pesos. This because no higher elements were provided to be solved. ! 1,590 Observations for an amount of 6.180 million pesos, in which the state control bodies must accredit the initiation of the administrative procedure of the responsible public servants. ! 3,591 Observations for an amount of 13,653 million pesos, in which state constraints must prove the corresponding prescription opinions. For its purpose, these instances will be asked to initiate administrative procedures to identify public servants who incurred the lack of attention from these observations. ! 1,794 Observations that derived from the audits carried out in 2018 for an amount of 6,082 million pesos. The projects of opinions are available to analyze Solving presented by the state control organs. • With regard to public procurement, the implementation of the new consolidation policy on the matter requires a regulatory regulatory framework that guarantees the best conditions for the state and quality. At the same time, an audit is necessary in accordance with the Irreunciable commitment of the federal government to close spaces to corruption and impunity. On the occasion of certain observations, probable damage was identified by 264.9 million pesos. • In order to assume an active and accompanying role with the executors of the expenditure to prevent the risks that could affect compliance with objectives and goals, it was determined to carry out two control visits to each of the federal government strategic programs. The relaunching of the public function as a dependency responsible for the fight against corruption is not limited to improving what was previously done, but also seeks to build an institution capable of conforming a new public ethics in the country. To achieve this, an action plan based on five axes was developed: 1) Promote republican austerity; 2) Cycondness combat to corruption; 3) Relain professional career service; 4) Democratize technologies, 5) Protect the complaint and internal alerters. Promoting Republican austerity Republican austerity is a new vision that seeks to eradicate waste and reorient public resources to integral wellness programs and infrastructure projects. None of the instrumented measures affects the substantive operation of State institutions or the provision of public services. Nor will the integral welfare programs that promote the current administration will be affected. In this sense, in the budget of expenditures of the Federation (PEF) 2019, spending on personal services was reduced, both by a reduction in the number of structure places, as well as a decrease in salaries and salaries of senior officials between 12% and 47%. The reform to the Organic Law of the Federal Public Administration, published in the DOF on November 30, 2018, laid the foundations for the redesign of those structures. The objective of this measure was to eliminate duplicities and merge related areas, as well as centralizing the operation in a single unit or coordination. In order to implement these changes, the SFP and the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit (SHCP) issued the manual of the public servants of the Federal Public Administration and the Federal Salary Tab and Tabulator applicable to the President of the Republic already The public servants of the APF dependencies and entities (with effect as of January 1, 2019). In this one established the decrease in gross perceptions in the following terms: salary reduction by level of position in the Federal Public Administration (Percentage Change) Position Level Salary Reduction (%) President of the Republic 47.2 Secretaries of State 29.0 Undersecretaries 29.5 Heads of Unit 28.1 General Directors 19.8 General Directors Attachments 11.9 The Austerity Policy implies prioritizing substantive activities compared to supportive activities. Therefore, the Government initiated a process to reduce the cost of the 1,928 support cabinet places by 30% and to adjust the organic structures to the 2019 PEF. In total, the Federal Government has the goal of returning command or link to link to Generate savings for 10,012 million pesos. As of June 30 It has an advance of 38%, which represents the return of 7,991 seats and a saving of 3.852 million pesos. It should be noted that the organizational restructuring does not affect 92 out of every 100 public servants, who are not subject to austerity measures because it is basic, operational or similar category. Additionally, the Executive Branch has promoted the approval of the Republican Austerity Law of State, which was approved by the Chamber of Deputies on April 30, 2019. Subsequently, the Senate of the Republic approved it, with only two changes, in July of the same year. The proposal is in the last stages of the legislative process. The bill creates an austerity policy that will be monitored and evaluated annually in order to continue with the reduction of unnecessary costs and the strengthening of the public sector. To this end, an assessment committee of austerity measures that will annually inform the savings obtained, its impact, and the following measures to be implemented. In addition, the new law reiterates that the acquisitions, leases and services of the State will be awarded through public tenders, and adds that the exception should be fully justified before the internal control bodies. Superfluous expenses are eliminated on travel, meals, telephony and luxury automobiles with value of more than 4,343 units of measurement and updating (367 thousand pesos in 2019). Consulting can only be hired when services can not be carried out with the workforce and professional capacity of public servants and are indispensable for the fulfillment of their responsibilities. Based on the entry into force of the law, the creation of public trusts, public mandates or analogous contracts on health, education, procurement, social security and public safety will be prohibited. Additionally, the new law establishes that all the trusts that exist today are on normative, budgetary and effectiveness and effectiveness to make the corresponding recommendations in the budget of expenditures of the Federation. The bill eliminates the delegations of public entities abroad, except for those corresponding to the areas of national security and impartial of justice, and prohibits all duplication of functions in the units that make up the Federal Public Administration. It is clarified that gender equality units do not constitute a duplicity. Support personnel in public administration are also limited: • Particular secretary is assigned only to dependency or entity holders. • Only the assignment of driver to Subsecretarios de Status and Superiors is allowed, as well as holders of direct control entities. • Squares with an attached general leadership levels are prohibited that do not exercise themselves expressly contemplated in law or regulation (those that do not meet this condition will be eliminated and have been created after 2001). Citizen the combat to corruption and impunity was restructured to the SFP with a new approach to institutional integrity, greater citizen surveillance, participatory culture of integrity and accountability and auspices of alerting rights. Among the activities carried out between December 2018 and June 2019, the following stand out: • Guidelines were developed in terms of citizen and governmental surveillance through an advisory and open process. Through it, the mechanisms and instruments of citizen participation have been defined in combating corruption and impunity. • A model was implemented before developed from human attention from citizen petitions and complaints through social networks, which has included assistance protocols, attention and sponsorship of rights of citizens and alerters. Until July 30, 2019, the pilot program has attended 30 cases. • A new citizen surveillance mechanism was created and both the dissemination of public information and the citizen (inter-institutional and intergovernmental) channels was strengthened. This with the aim of enabling agency capacity and open surveillance to the public in social Comptroller. • Social Comptroller and 32 Federal Entities concluded the advisory process with 61 units responsible for federal social development programs. This with the aim of knowing its recommendations on the monitoring and feedback mechanisms of the normative design on the subject. • Social Comptroller's strategies (scheme, operational guide and annual social protection program were validated) of 38 federal programs, which represents 15% more, compared to the same period of the previous administration in 2013. • Agree With the information registered in the Social Comptroller's Computer System, as of June 30, 2019, 1,933 Social Comptroller Committees have been registered by 1,543 men and 5,930 women, which have monitored 2,078 supports, works or services. • For the purpose of promoting open citizen competing mechanisms that affect the combat to corruption and impunity, the 2019 annual work program was signed with the 32 state control bodies. This is the preparation of a diagnostic questionnaire in its activities with the aim of identifying the local surveillance mechanism in the various programs (of works, supports or services) that are executed with resources typical of municipalities and mayors of Mexico City. • In coordination with the 32 state control bodies, a survey was carried out and diagnosed at 861 municipalities from 22 federal entities. 14 training workshops were carried out in eight federal entities, which was included with the participation of 514 public servants (20 state and 494 municipalities from 245 municipalities), who were provided with materials for the implementation of citizen surveillance mechanisms In local governments. • Finally, 26 training actions were carried out with a coverage of 428 public servants of the federal, state and municipal order; Likewise, 32 advisory meetings were carried out on the legal framework that governs social competence. In addition, there was the participation of 83 officials from 38 federal programs. Relain the professional career service with a gender perspective regarding the professionalization of public service, a series of reforms have been raised that They make up the framework of the relaunching of professional career service (SPC). In terms of admission to APF, on May 23, the "methodology for the assessment of proven capacity and obtaining that accredits the occupation requirements of candidates to enter the Federal Public Administration, with The purpose of flexible the processes of income to the federal government. Likewise, the registration of public government servers was updated to allow adequate planning of human resources. Among the first findings of the analysis of this information, the need to build a more inclusive public service was identified: only 3,179, less than 1% of the federal government's public servants, speak some of the 62 languages ​​originating in the country, while the Reason for men and women in the SPC is 1.5%. It has been worked to incorporate a gender perspective into the SPC and consolidate an institutional and labor culture framework that guarantees the full validity of human rights, equality and non-discrimination in public service. For this purpose, on February 5, 2019, the guidelines for research with a gender perspective and due diligence of cases related to the human rights violation of pregnant women were issued, aimed at the competent OIC authorities. On March 7, within the framework of the commemoration of International Women's Day, the project of professionalization in public service with gender equality was also presented, which seeks to improve the rules of income, professional development and permanence in public service so that they are more equitable. As part of the strengthening actions in the care of cases that involve harassment and sexual harassment, 47 OIC headlines have been trained in person. In addition, strategies have been developed to comply with international commitments on eradication of all forms of discrimination and violence against women. An example of this is the new protocol for the prevention, attention and sanction of harassment and sexual harassment. Professional career service by gender and level of position (number of people) PanStototal level Nominal nominal woman% total P / 23,91114,497 60.6 9,41439.4 General Directorate 212151 71.2 6128.8 Deputy Directorate 358226 63.1 13236.9 Area Directorate 2,0861,279 61.3 80738.7 Subdirection Area 5,3023,286 62.0 2,01638.0 Department Department 8,2194,799 58.4 3,42041.6Enlace 7,7344,756 61.5 2,97838.5p / Preliminary Figures As of May 31 2019. Source: Secretariat of public function. In terms of training and training, the Database of the Electronic RHnet and Sii @ web platform of the Training and Certification subsystem reports from December 1, 2018 to June 30, 2019, the following: • 39 Rights Awareness Actions were performed Human with 370 participants. Of these, 334 (90%) belong to institutions not subject to SPC, and the remaining 10% corresponds to institutions subject to professional career service (SPC). • 2,984 Human Rights Training Actions were performed, with 6,573 participants. Of these, 13.4%, that is, 882 public servants, correspond to the institutions subject to SPC, and 5,691 participants (86.6%) belong to institutions not subject to SPC. • 315 gender perspective training actions were carried out, with 2,043 participants. Of these, 2,030 (99%) They belong to institutions not subject to SPC, and, the rest, to SPC institutions. • 152 training actions in terms of interculturality and non-discrimination were completed, with 303 participants. Of these, 141 (46.5%) correspond to the institutions subject to SPC and 162 (53.5%) belong to institutions not subject to SPC. • 48,278 public servants of 125 Institutions of the APF were trained in terms of human rights and gender perspective through the Educa Portal of the National Commission on Human Rights (CNDH) and the Portal "Dogeneroó 1 / of Inmujeres. • On June 27, 2019, the Franco-Mexican Seminary "deontology and transparency at the service of general interest, organized by the Secretariat of the Public Service and the Embassy of France in Mexico was carried out. This focused on reflection on professionalization with emphasis on deontology, prevention of conflicts of interest, gender equity, the fight against corruption and the organization of the chain of expenses. Compilation of academic programs compiled online academic programs that are offered free of charge for public servants. The micrositium presents five items: 1) Initial training, 2) Continuous training, 3) Training for senior management, 4) Dissemination of academic activities and 5) Training for operators of professional career service. It is intended that the portal serves the more than 34 thousand people who make up the professional career service. Reactivation of agreements A strategy was implemented to take advantage of the inter-institutional agreements found 1 / the available offer can be consulted on the page: http://www.usp.funcionpublic.gob.mx. Signed. This with the aim of generating the subscription of new instruments for the relaunch of SPC with a gender perspective, inclusion and non-discrimination. In this way, inter-institutional collaboration is strengthened in terms of professionalization in conjunction with institutions such as the National Autonomous University of Mexico, the open and distance university of Mexico, the National Institute of Women (Inmujeres) and the CNDH; Likewise, by holding Memorandum of Understanding with the United Nations Office against Drugs and Crime (UNODC), the Embassies of France and Chile, among others. Democratizing technologies The Government is worked to put public information and new technological applications at the service of citizens in order to facilitate and promote their participation in our democracy. It has been advanced in a system that will allow crossing the SFP audit information with the complaints of citizens to have a closest and more constant audit. In the most relevant public works, as well as strategic projects, citizens will be able to access all technical and budgetary information so that they can help verify the progress of the projects. As part of this transparency exercise, through information technologies, the transparent payroll portal was launched to publicize the salary information of all public servants, except for those by the National Security Law must be reserved. Until its launch, on April 15, 2019, you could only know the salary of around 100 thousand public servants. Since then, the revenues of 1.4 million federal officials and 1.7 million teachers in the Federalized Payroll are available. In the framework of the National Anti-Corruption System, the Government of Mexico promoted a new format of Declaration of patrimonial situation and interest. This proposal was approved, in general, during the third Ordinary Session 2019 of the Coordinating Committee, held on July 9, 2019. The SFP is advanced in parallel in the development of the necessary technological platform to capture the new formats with the purpose of making it Accessible to all members of the aforementioned system. Another step towards the democratization of technologies, driven from the SFP, has been the use of free software as GlobalEaks. This has become the base to guarantee the confidentiality of the information of the new program of citizens internal and external alerters of corruption. We are building safe platforms through the sharing and collaborative use of computing programs. Protect the denunciation and the internal alerters in order to add citizens in combating corruption and impunity, the SFP launched the pilot protection program to internal and external alerting citizens of corruption. This in order to promote the complaint and protect the rights of alerters of corruption. This program grants protection measures to those who denounce serious acts of corruption, human rights violations and harassment and sexual harassment in the federal government. The central idea is to combat impunity by promoting the culture of the complaint through three actions: 1. The confidentiality of the complaint is ensured through a new technological platform where citizens and public servants can alert corruption in a simple and protected way. With free software technologies - as GlobalEaks - is guaranteed the confidentiality of information and, if necessary, the anonymity of the citizen voice. 2. The agreement was developed by establishing the guidelines for the promotion and operation of the internal and external alerting citizens system for corruption so that they are not victims of reprisals for having reported acts of corruption. 3. A program was designed to be proactive in the follow-up and relief of the complaints. The program establishes a clear action protocol, with defined times and responsible. With this program, Mexico has complied with the international commitments it has been assumed for more than 20 years at the Inter-American Convention against Corruption (1996), and then in the United Nations Convention against Corruption (2003) and in the Protocol by the that the North American Free Trade Agreement is replaced by the Treaty between the United Mexican States, the United States of America and Canada (2018). To advance this program, on May 14, 2019, the Memorandum of Understanding was signed between the SFP and the Liaison and Partnership Office in Mexico from the United Nations Office against Drugs and Crime, which aims to establish a cooperation framework in the five priorities of the SFP: 1) Promote Republican austerity; 2) Cycondness combat to corruption; 3) Relain professional career service; 4) Democratize technologies, 5) Protect the complaint and internal alerters. Mexico actively participated in the Alliance for the Open Government with the aim of developing a public policy that prevents and sanction espionage in the country. In conjunction with civil society organizations, Mexico started (in June 2019) the process of preparing the 2019-2021 Action Plan. The scheduled date of presentation of this plan was August 30, 2019. Relevant aspects of the subject Eradication corruption, dispenser and frivolity Social communication and advertising • In 2018 9,132.8 million pesos were exercised, of which 8,179 million were paid. of pesos in social communication and advertising services. In contrast, this year a budget of 4.213 million pesos was approved. Relevant aspects of the topic Eradicate corruption, dispenser and frivolity • Additionally, through the memorandum issued by the President on May 3, a new adjustment was ordered to three partners in social communication. Pension to Expresident • All kinds of provision or special budget for pensions, assessments or remunerations of the Federal Executive were suppressed from the Federation budget. Presidential staff • The presidential staff disappeared. The 8 thousand elite elements that took care of the President of the Republic were incorporated into the armed institutes of the country, including the National Guard, to protect the people. The President of Mexico takes care of the people. Proméxico and CPTM is eliminated by decree published in the Official Journal of the Federation (DOF) on May 3, 2019, the dearncillaration was authorized by extinction of the public trust considered an entity of prominem. Based on this decision, the strategy for the promotion of foreign trade and attraction of foreign direct investment, object of the disincorporated trust, will be designed and conducted centrally by the Ministry of Economy, in coordination with the Foreign Affairs Secretariat. • In order to avoid duplicity of functions and unnecessary expenses, on July 31, 2019, the Decree for which they reform and derogate various provisions of the General Tourism Law was published in the DOF. The Tourist Promotion Council of Mexico, S.A, was disintegrated. of C.V. As a majority state participation company and its dissolution and liquidation are ordered. From the perspective of austerity and budget efficiency, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs assumes the relevant aspects of eradicating corruption, expenditure and frivolity functions of international promotion and the Secretary of Tourism will be the body in charge of international fairs and tourist tianguis . Supports will be delivered directly to avoid corruption • To end corrupt practices, such as influyentism and political-electoral use of public resources, the Government of Mexico traveled a new paradigm in the implementation of social programs: in a manner. Direct and without intermediaries through mechanisms such as cards for well-being. Safening of goods through the administration and alienation service of goods, now institute for the administration of goods and assets, actions were carried out corresponding to the destination of goods derived from crime and corruption for support for social causes, highlighting: • Real estate auction : On June 23 at the Cultural Complex, the Pinos auction was performed the auction of land and houses in abandonment, domain extinction and confiscation. Nine properties were sold for a value of 56.6 million pesos (MDP); Of this amount, it is expected to allocate 51.3 mdp to the municipalities of Metholatónoc and Cochoapa El Grande, both located on the Mountain of the State of Guerrero. On July 19, the symbolic delivery of resources was carried out by 42.3 mdp to the mentioned municipalities. • Auction of furniture property: May 26 at the Los Pinos Cultural Complex, 11 vehicles of the presidential staff were sold, which generated income by Relevant aspects of the topic Eradicate corruption, dispenser and frivolity 6.5 MDP. Additionally, there were 54 vehicles transferred by the Attorney General's Office, which generated revenue by 21.1 mdp. On June 17, resources were delivered by 25.6 mdp to the municipalities of Santa María Zaniza and Santos Reyes Yucuná, of the State of Oaxaca. On July 28 at the Pines cultural complex, 110 lots of jewelry were sold for a total of 10.3 mdp of which 0.92 mdp and 0.04 mdp correspond to the tax administration service and the secretariat of the public function, respectively. Additionally, 9.1 MDP will be allocated to the municipality of Coalcomán, Michoacán. • Sale of aircraft since February 2019 The National Bank of Public Works and Services initiated the work to establish the route that allows the marketing phase of up to 72 aircraft (including the presidential aircraft). In this regard, two specific agreements were signed with the United Nations Office of Projects Services. This in order to implement technical assistance to perform the marketing acts of the presidential plane and the rest of the fleet, which consist of the preparation, analysis, valuation and identification of alternatives. Creation of the Institute for the Administration of Goods and Assets The Honorable Congress of the Union approved a package of initiatives with the purpose of strengthening the current legal framework for obtaining resources to support the financing of priority social programs of the Federal Government. Additionally, it seeks to facilitate the administration, alienation and destination of the insured goods from acts of relevant aspects of the subject eradicate corruption, dispenser and corruption and illicit frivolity. Among these initiatives, the following stand out: • Expedition of the National Domain Extinguishment Law; • Federal Law for Administration and Safening of Public Sector Assets (In this reform, the creation of the Institute is incorporated); • National Code of Criminal Procedures; • Law of Commercial Competitions; and • Organic Law of Federal Public Administration (the Social Cabinet of the Presidency of the Republic is incorporated). The legislative process of this initiative package occurred in the following terms: • July 1, 2019: approval by the Plenary of the Chamber of Senators; and • July 25, 2019: approval by the full of the Chamber of Deputies. • On August 9, 2019, the corresponding decree was published in the Official Journal of the Federation. An agreement was signed with the UN on the topic of transparency focused on the subject of works tender: • On February 13, 2019, the Framework Agreement between the Government of Mexico and the United Nations Office of Services was signed in the National Palace. Projects (UNOPS). Its purpose is to establish a cooperation framework that facilitates technical assistance to the Government of Mexico in projects of interest through specific agreements. Technical assistance, at the request of the Mexican Government, will include all support activities for the implementation of projects and actions aimed at strengthening transparency, effectiveness and efficiency in the areas of procurement, infrastructure and management of high impact projects in Mexico. Relevant aspects of the topic Eradicate corruption, expenditure and frivolity Pines • As of December 1, 2018, the official residence of the pines was opened to the public and transformed into the cultural complex Los Pinos, an emblematic space for the Mexico history. He is currently one of the cultural enclosures with the most affluence of the country. This space is in charge of the Ministry of Culture and, between December 2018 and June 2019, has developed an intense program with 335 artistic activities in the disciplines of music, cinema, dance, visual arts and theater that counted on the presence of More than 1.5 million Mexicans. Source: Dependencies and entities of the Federal Public Administration. Implementation of a system of consolidated contracting with the modification to the Organic Law of the Federal Public Administration, and given that some of the powers were conferred on the SHCP Senior Officer, the process of implementing a consolidated contracting system began Based on international best practices. As of the definition of the organizational structure, specific tasks, business rules and tools, it is sought to contribute two of the great objectives of this administration: combating corruption and generating savings. These objectives allow to operate strategic programs of direct attention to the most vulnerable population. According to the OECD, international best public procurement practices mainly use models of consolidated purchasing agency in a public entity alien to substantive areas with different levels of governance. This model has been implemented in countries such as Sweden, Spain and Ireland, among others1 /. In this regard, the need arises to create specialized units and teams in the planning, study, integration and administration of the consolidated contracting system, accompanied at all times of specialized teams in development and technological, legal, user management, communications and Audit that supports the implementation of the system. The first consolidations of the new administration in order to begin the encomienda of centralization of public purchases and procurement of the Federal Public Administration, and based on the budget analysis exercised during the last administration, it was identified that the following items could be be susceptible to consolidation process during fiscal year 2019: • medications; • Leasing of transport equipment; • Leasing of ambulances; • fuels; • Cleaning, gardening and fumigation; • Surveillance service, and • material and office supplies. Additionally, accompaniment is provided in specific and strategic purchases related to priority programs and projects, such as "sowing life, or the purchase of rails for the Mayan train. 1/2016 OECD SURVEY On Public Procurement (29 OECD Countries. Advances in the establishment of the System of Consolidated Contracting of the Public Sector Consolidation Mechanism Contracting Mechanism July 31, 2019 Vehicle Leasing Public Bidding (Multi) Call Publication: 08/13/2019 Start of service provision: 15 / 09/2019 Validity at 08/15/2022 Leasing of ambulances Public tender (multi-year) Call publication: 08/20/2019 Start of service provision: 01/01/2020 Validity on 12/31/2022 Surveillance service Public bidding (Plurianual) Publication of call: 07/29/2019 Date scheduled for the failure: 08/23/2019 Validity on 12/31/2020 Fuente1 / Contract Submission of the Contract Submission: 07/31/2019 Start of provision of the service: 08/01/2019 Validity: On 12/31/2020 Cleaning, Gardening and Fumigation Contract Subscription Contract Subscription Framework (Gardening and Fumigation): 07/29/2019 Start of service provision: 08/01/2019 Validity at 31 / 12/20. 20 Material and Office Supply Contract Contract Subscription of the Contract Submission: Advances in the establishment of the System of Consolidated Contracting of the Public Sector Consolidation Mechanism Contract Mechanism As of July 31, 2019 30/07 / 2019Strando Vida Contract Setting : 07/12/2019 Pending: Purchase of plants and supply of supply of supplies and plants.1 / Excludes fuels that CFE and PEMEX consume as raw material. Source: Senior Official of the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit. In acquisitions, leases and / or hiring services for generalized use or high purchase recurrence, it is possible to add the demand for a greater number of dependencies and / or entities, with which better price and quality conditions are promoted for the Condition. Medications and healing material for the second half of 2019 The consolidated purchase of drugs and healing material for the second half of 2019 considered the requirements of 25 federal entities that opted for the transfer in the resources corresponding to the popular insurance. Additionally, the requirements of the Mexican Social Security Institute, Safety Institute and Social Services of State Workers, Marina and Petróleos Mexican Social Services were incorporated. Although they already have contracts that guarantee the supply for all 2019, it is sought to find better conditions. For this consolidated purchase, the collaboration of the United Nations Office of Projects Services (UNOPS) was counted by those who, through technical cooperation in the various phases of the consolidation process, carried out an analysis of the reasonability of international medicines prices and the Healing material at the regional level (multinational). It is important to note that with the participation of this international agency specialized in government purchases, the highest level of transparency, efficiency and efficiency in the execution of the consolidated drug purchase and healing material is contributed. Buying unprecedented antiretrovirals The purchase of antiretroviral drugs featured the collaboration of medical experts and researchers responsible for improving therapeutic treatment. This resulted in the reduction of prices of up to 72% in some medications, as well as a saving of 1,741 million pesos, equivalent to a 48% reduction with respect to the consolidated purchase made in the previous administration. The proposal submitted by the Group of Physicians and researchers simplifies antiretroviral treatment and provides the most effective and safe therapeutic schemes based on scientific evidence and international experiences. This, on the other hand, should be translated, both in improvements to the quality of life of patients as in the possibility for the federal government to acquire medications under the best price and quality conditions. It is important to note that the therapeutic picture, which considered 35 different options of these medications, decreases less than half with the new scheme. This gives the possibility of adding volume due to the preferred use of one of the medications and, thereby, to have better negotiation conditions with the manufacturers. International public tender for the purchase of medications and healing material The tender of medicines and healing material considered a total of 3,090 keys, of which, 1.081 correspond to medications and 2,009 to healing material. The decision of the tender was held on June 28, 2019 and 1,201 keys were awarded, which generated a saving equivalent to 24%, that is, 2.180 million pesos. It should be noted that the deserted medication keys do not represent a risk because it has the consolidated contract signed in the previous administration, which concludes until December 31, 2019. Purchase of medications against hepatitis c hepatitis virus C is a public health problem worldwide, responsible for approximately 25% of the cases of liver cirrhosis and 25% of the cases of liver cancer. It is a condition that affects the quality of life of people; However, at present it is a curable and preventable disease. Consolidated Purchase of Medications and Healing Material, Second Semester of 2019 (Millions of Pesos) Grupo Value Value Award Tailor-Tajetotal Buy 20,981 13,376 9,095 4,281 32 Antiretrovirals3,605 3,605 1,864 1,741 48 Tender (Generic Medica-Memwees and Healing Material ) 16,629 9,021 6,841 2,180 24 hepatitis C750 750 390 360 48 Value: refers to the prices of the consolidated purchase made by the IMSS for 2019. Purchase: refers to the value of the purchase using the prices obtained in the awarded keys. The amounts indicated are calculated considering the maximum amount required by each of the participating institutions in consolidation. In the case of antiretroviral drugs, the demand for the Ministry of Health (census) is considered. Source: Senior Official of the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit. In this sense, the discovery of direct antiviral agents (AAD's) orally is one of the most important progress in medicine in this century. This changed the management perspective of hepatitis C and motivated the World Health Organization to launch the goal of achieving the elimination of this disease by the year 2030. Under the foregoing, together with medical specialists from the health sector, The standardization of therapeutic treatment and, consequently, the aggregation of the volume of the demand of the institutions of the health sector and the federal entities was chosen. It should be noted that this propitiated to find a commercial option that considers a decrease of 48% in the cost of treatment per patient, passing from 149,688 pesos to 78,838 pesos, as well as other benefits, such as: • Diagnosis with viral load at the beginning and after of treatment; • at least 750 thousand fast detection tests; • Additional analyzes; • Rescue medication for therapeutic faults at no cost; • Platform or system of patient central information, and • 175 trained nurses. Vehicles for public servants dated May 3, 2019, the Federal Executive issued a memorandum that considers, within the section "Measures on payroll and personal services for controls and links, which" can only have drivers and vehicles assigned the owner From the Federal Executive, the Secretaries, Undersecretarians and Homologous and "The purchase or lease of new vehicles will not be allowed for allocation to public control servers. In this sense, through the coordination of the SHCP Major Officialía with all areas of administration and finance of the Federal Public Administration, the purchase and / or lease of vehicles has been limited only at the level of Secretaries of State and Undersecretaries. Coordination of Administration and Finance Units of the Federal Public Administration with the Amendment to the Organic Law of Federal Public Administration, the major officers were transformed from the dependencies in administration and finance units1 /; Likewise, it was awarded the SHCP Senior Officialía the power to coordinate all administration and finance units of the federal government. In this regard, 285 central level institutions, deconcentrated administrative bodies and decentralized public bodies are coordinated. As part of the strategy, weekly meetings are carried out with the administration and finance units of the Sectoral Ramos. These are followed up with compliance with austerity measures, budgetary exercise, liabilities, scenarios of spending pressures, savings in hiring and services, as well as early termination for unnecessary purchases and, in general, issues related to the Operation of human and material resources, among others. The Federal Government has a savings goal for 2019 of 200 billion pesos that will be achieved through administrative efficiencies, purchasing consolidation, cancellation of major and separating expenditure insurance, as well as the optimization of surveillance services and of the patrimonial insurance that contracts the dependencies and entities. 1 / Only the secretariats of national defense, marine and hacienda and public credit retain the figure of major official. Savings in the Federal Public Administration compared to 2018, as of July 31, 2019 (preliminary figures in millions of pesos) Total Savings Concept 145,614 Reductions or Cancellations of Purchasing and Contracts 124,799 Pemex 56,094 Contracting (Including Huachicol) 48,245 Recruitment of Debt (Financial Cost ) 7,849 CFE 46,666 Reduction of spending by 20% in fuel usage 33,283 Other goods and services 13,383 IMSS 508 ISSSTE 223 The other dependencies and entities 19,977 Food and Service Controls 1,331 Federal Police 868 Social Readptation 463 Consolidated Purchasing in the Central Sector 6,829 Medicines 2nd Semester 2019 4,281 Bid 2,180 Antiretrovirals 1,741 Hepatitis C 360 Printing Free Text Books (C / Paper) 1,019 Surveillance Services 906 Other 623 Insurance 13,986 Secure Cancellation of Medical Expenses and Public Server Separation Insurance 13,662 Optimization Senior medical expenses and patrimonial 324 PO Federal Licia 205 PREVENTION AND SOCIAL REAGOPTION 119 Source: Senior Official of the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit based on information provided by the institutions of the Federal Public Administration (with the exception of consolidated purchases). In parallel to the changes established by the Organic Law of Federal Public Administration, direct communication has been maintained with the coordination of digital strategy and the coordination of social communication and vote, dependent on the office of the Presidency of the Republic. This with the purpose of addressing the policies and technological strategies and social communication of the dependencies and entities. In the same way, there is a permanent collaboration with the Legal Ministry of the Federal Executive for the attention of regulatory regulatory matters. With these measures, the SHCP sail because the Government operates effectively and efficiently, in such a way that public resources are exercised following the principles of Republican austerity that guide the actions of this administration. Return the rule of law The legitimacy that granted the power of citizens' vote to the executive power is an opportunity to reformulate and reorient the basis of the democratic system in Mexico. In the field of justice and the rule of law, it is identified that institutions and the legal framework have pending with the various sectors of society in terms of human and social rights; order and safety guarantees; Access to civil and criminal justice, and rescue of institutions affected by corruption. To recover the rule of law, the Government of Mexico was proposed, among other mechanisms, to strengthen the link and dialogue with the legislative power in the Honorable Congress of the Union, with the judiciary and with the constitutionally autonomous agencies, in order to promote Concidents and agreements that allow us to consolidate the project of economic, political and social transformation of Mexico. One of the main encomiendas was to establish a relationship of respect with the legislative power that with full autonomy it is possible to analyze and approve the initiatives of law that were sent to you. From the actions held from December 1, 2018 to July 2, 2019, the following are reported: • Turnó to the dependencies and entities of the Federal Public Administration 294 points of agreement (96 of the Chamber of Senators, 129 of the Chamber of deputies and 69 of the Permanent Commission of H. Congress of the Union) for your attention. • The appointments of 82 public servants, owners of autonomous constitutional bodies and ministers, among which those of the Secretary of Finance and Public Credit, the Secretary of Foreign Affairs, the Secretary of Foreign Affairs, the Secretary of Foreign Affairs are submitted. Public function, the Attorney General of the Republic and two ministers of the Supreme Court of Justice of the Nation. This process guarantees, in terms of the approval of public officials, the execution of the Government Program of the President of the Republic and with respect to the holders of the autonomous bodies and the ministers, independence in the exercise of government and decision-making. • The procedure was carried out for the publication in the Official Journal of the Federation (DOF) of 49 decrees of which, five correspond to constitutional reforms; six to the issuance of new legislation; two in fiscal matters relating to fiscal year 2019; two reforms to the normative framework of H. Congress of the Union; four declarators of commemorative dates; 23 Reforms to secondary legislation and seven calls to extraordinary sessions of H. Congress of the Union. Likewise, through permanent dialogue with all the political forces represented in H. Congress of the Union, the consolidation of important reforms that were presented by various legislators were presented: outstanding reforms published in the Official Journal of the Federation Decree Importance for which the Organic Law of the General Prosecutor's Office (DOF on December 14, 2018) and declaration of the entry into force of its constitutional autonomy (DOF 20, 2018) is issued. The Agency replaces the Attorney General of the Republic and its autonomy implies the election of the Attorney General for two thirds of the Senate and the independence of other powers of the Union since the command remains in the hands of non-subordinated citizens to considerations of a partisan nature Decree by which Article 22 is reformed Mandate the extinction of domain on certain Outstanding reforms published in the Official Journal of the Decree Federation and the XXX fraction of article 73 of the Political Constitution of the United Mexican States (DOF 14 March 2019). crimes Decree by which they reform, add various provisions from the Political Constitution of the United Mexican States, on national guard (DOF March 26, 2019. It establishes the Constitutional Framework of the National Guard. Decree by which they reform , they add and derogate various provisions of the Federal Labor Law, of the Organic Law of the Judicial Power of the Federation, of the Federal Law of the Public Defender, of the Law of the Institute of the National Housing Fund for Workers and the Social Security Law, on labor justice, freedom of association and collective bargaining (DOF 1 May 2019). Modifies certain provisions on labor justice, freedom of association and collective bargaining. Decree by which the law of the National Guard (DOF May 27, 2019). Regulates to the National Guard as an institution of public safety, civil, disciplined and professional adscrite outstanding reforms S published in the Official Gazette of the Federation Decree Importance as a deconcentrated body of the Secretariat of Security and Citizen Protection. Decree by which the National Law on the use of force (DOF 27, 2019) is issued. It regulates the use of force by security institutions and armed forces when they care for public safety tasks. Decree by which the National Law of the Detention Registry (DOF 27, 2019) is issued. It creates the National Registry of Detentions that guarantees the control and monitoring of the way in which the detention of a citizen was carried out by some authority. Decree by which they reform, add various articles of the General Law of the National Public Security System (DOF May 27, 2019). Create the National System of Information in Public Safety. Decree by which articles 2, 4, 35, 41, 52, 53, 56, 94 and 115 are reformed; of the Political Constitution of the United Mexican States, regarding gender parity (DOF June 6, 2019). Mandate parity between gender for public office. Source: Secretariat of the Government. In compliance with the constitutional mandate 14 Government Cabinet officials of the Republic appeared before various instances of H. Congress of the Union and 82 work meetings were carried out on the rule of law, these activities contributed to the analysis of reforms on combat to corruption, public and national security, improvements in the administration Federal public, showing up the following: • Fuel theft. On January 28, 2019, the Secretary of Energy, as well as the owners of Mexican Petróleos, of the Federal Intelligence Unit and the Federal Procurator of the Consumer. They explained that the federal government made the decision to close the fuel ducts due to the theft but guaranteed the distribution through pipes. Likewise, it was reported that the Financial Intelligence Unit designed strategies to detect financial movements with irregularities. • National Public Safety Strategy. On April 25, 2019, the Secretary of Security and Citizen Protection appeared before the Plenary of the Senate of the Republic. ! Exhibited the lines of the strategy: 1) Eradication of corruption in security bodies, 2) policies to stop the basic causes of violence, 3) framework of protection and respect for human rights, 4) restructure ethics and Moral instances of government, 5) Redefine combat to drugs and establish new policies for the consumption of narcotics, 6) Reorient the functionality of prison centers without criminalizing vulnerable groups, and 7) Establish spaces and programs for the Development of the National Guard that agrups the Federal Police and Elements of the Army and the Navy of Mexico. Also, he emphasized that the "despistolization of criminal groups should become a combat strategy and blocking armament traffic. • National Development Plan. The Conference for the Directorate and Programming of the Legislative Work of the Chamber of Deputies invited the Secretary of the Government to the inauguration of the Dialogue Forums of the PND 2019-2024. • The congruence of the ideal of the President of the Republic was exalted with the PND, expressed in the lines of work carried out on a daily basis for combating corruption, to establish the separation of the political power of the economic, guaranteeing internal security, granting importance To democratic participation (popular consultation, revocation of mandate or community assemblies), mainly. • Analysis on the National Guard. The Commission of Constitutional Points of the Senate of the Republic carried out the work meeting with the Security and Citizen Protection, Navy and National Defense Secretaries. ! The holders provided information about the proposed operation for the National Guard, they said that it does not mean the militarization of the structure of the State as it would be governed by a police doctrine based on respect for human rights, with a civilian position but with the purpose of Having a disciplined institution, with training and professionalization, as well as hierarchical structures that guarantee discipline and have values ​​at the service of public safety. • Gender alert, on April 5, 2019, presented proposals that allowed strengthening the normative sphere of alertness on sexual torture and different types of violence against women, girls, with "dialogues towards equality and security. and adolescents who derived in a reform initiative to the respective law presented by the Gender Equality Commission of the Chamber of Deputies on April 25, 2019. Assisted public safety, governance and health, of the Commission National to prevent and eradicate violence against women, to the National Institute of Women, where a public policy was proposed to articulate, in addition the factors that motivate the phenomenon were analyzed. The Legal Ministry of the Federal Executive (CJEF), in the exercise of its powers to submit to consideration and signature of the President of the Republic The preliminary draft of constitutional reform initiatives, laws or legislative decrees developed various actions in conjunction with the dependencies of public administration . Derived from the above, from December 1, 2018 as of June 30, 2019, he ruled various initiatives presented by the federal executive holder before H. Congress of the Union, as well as pre-projects of regulations in the use of the faculty that the Article 89, fraction I of the Political Constitution of the United Mexican States, grants the President of the Republic, in addition, carried out the legal review of various legislative decrees: issues dictated in legislative matters (December 1, 2018 to June 30 of 2019) Actions Total number 53 Constitutional reform initiatives 2 Legal reform initiatives or issuance of new Laws 5 Decrects of Constitutional Reform 5 Decrees of legal reform or issuance of new laws 351 / Regulations published 6 1 / Four decrees published in November of 2018: Federal Remuneration Law, two decrees of LOAPF reform and a reform to the law on the shield, the flag and the hymn Nationals Source: Legal Counseling of the Federal Executive. • Stresses the presentation of the presidential initiative that reform articles 108 and 111 of the Political Constitution of the United Mexican States to establish that the President of the Republic during the time of his commission, may also be proceeded criminally by acts of corruption, crimes Electoralles and serious crimes, which was presented on December 4, 2018, approved by the Plenary Chamber of Senators on March 27, 2019 and which is pending as a minuta in the Chamber of Deputies. • Likewise, from consensus with the main political forces represented in H. Congress of the Union, actions were promoted for the approval of the decree stating Article 19 of the Political Constitution of the United Mexican States, in Subject of unofficial preventive detention, which expands the catalog of crimes, including corruption, the crimes of illicit enrichment and abusive exercise of functions. Published in the DOF on 12 April 2019. It should be noted that the reform of Article 19 constitutional also considers fuel theft as a serious crime, this reform contributed, at the same time the joint plan to end fuel theft, to which It reduces 95% theft of it, since 81 thousand daily barrels that were stolen in November 2018, a figure was recorded from 4 on April 21, 2019. Dictimed matters (December 1, 2018 as of June 30 2019) Actions Total number 1,330 Patents and offices 751 Opinions and consultations 145 Agreements 25 Indulses requests 18 Decrees 57 International instruments 43 Presidential appointments 234 Ambassadors 40 Consulses 17 Source: Legal Ministry of the Federal Executive The CJEF coordinated actions for the legal strengthening of the current administration, so it granted a broad tracking of the Proposals and initiatives attaching to the priorities established by the Holder of the Federal Executive. In order to improve the living conditions of the population, eradicate corruption and impunity, as well as promoting a free, just, solidary, democratic and fraternal society, the Executive Power presented before H. Congress of the Union Various initiatives. Initiatives submitted by the Federal Executive Initiative Revenue Act of the Federation for the 2019 Fiscal Year (DOF December 28, 2018). It marks the federal government's collection policy. Budget of expenditures of the Federation for fiscal year 2019. (DOF December 28, 2018). It indicates the destination of resources to carry out the Government project of the Executive Power, in order to increase the budget to finance welfare programs and eliminate pension for expression. Reform to articles 3, 31 and 73 of the Political Constitution of the United Mexican States (DOF 15 May 2019). Upgrade provisions on teaching training, of education of education and cancels the educational reform approved in the previous administration. Reform Articles 108 and 111 constitutional (in review March 27, 2019). It establishes that the President of the Republic during the commission of him, may be criminally processed by acts of corruption, electoral crimes and serious crimes. Initiatives presented by the Federal Executive Initiative Importance Reforms and additions to various provisions of the Law on Credit Institutions and the Federal Civil Code (presented at the Standing Commission on January 23, 2019, approved on March 5 and received on March 7 as a minuta in the camera of senators). It allows young people from 15 years of age to count on banking accounts without intervention by their representatives. Reforms, additions and derogations at various provisions of the Law on Savings Systems for Retirement (presented at the Standing Commission on January 23, 2019). Reforms provisions regarding funds for withdrawal and its investment regime. Reforms and additions to various provisions of the Law of Ascents and Rewards of the Mexican Army and Air Force (presented at the Chamber of Senators on June 5, 2019). Facilitates the requirements to participate in the selection and promotions. Source: Secretariat of the Government. The Federal Executive, through legal counseling, on the matters in which this is a party to the terms that establishes applicable regulations; Therefore, from December 1, 2018 as of June 30, 2019, it provided attention to the following issues: Assorted matters (December 1, 2018 as of June 30, 2019) Total number 3,258 Amparo Trials 213 Criminal Affairs 2 Constitutional Controversies 65 Electoral issues 23 Administrative matters 121 Actions of unconstitutionality 17 civil trials 1,014 agricultural judgments 1,695 Rights Humans 2 Source: Legal Counseling of the Federal Executive under a logic of total respect for the operation of the autonomous bodies, the Executive Power encourages the relationship in order to make agreements and actions that affect the strengthening of the Rule of Law and with it in the General well-being of the population. In this sense, the federal government follows up its acts, reports and resolutions for the purpose of resuming elements that pay for the exercise of power, so from December 1, 2018 to July 1, 2019, 21 meetings with bodies were carried out. autonomous to know and establish the guidelines of the relationship with the current federal administration with full respect and understanding, among which are: • Five with the Federal Telecommunications Institute; • four with the National Institute of Transparency, Access to Information and Protection of Personal Data; • Three with the National Electoral Institute; • Three with the National Institute of Statistics and Geography; • three with the Federal Commission of Economic Competition; • one with the Bank of Mexico; • One with the National Commission of Human Rights, and • one with the Attorney General's Office of the Republic. Agreement concluded with a public enforcement public to be necessary specific to collaboration in training and civic education (National Electoral Institute and the Secretariat of the Government) establish mechanisms for collaboration for the implementation of activities aimed at promoting, developing and disseminating political-democratic culture, Civic education, human rights and the construction of citizenship. The creation of strategies, actions, programs, and work plans improved democratic development, promote political development, good democratic governance, civic culture, citizenship and the rule of law that strengthen institutions in the current government from Mexico. Source: Secretariat of the Government. The Federal Executive proposed on July 5, 2019, to make an accompaniment to the higher courts of justice, through the proposal to create a Decalogue of Actions aimed at strengthening the Justice System that includes: Working in a coordinated manner; create a national ethics code; guarantee the budgetary autonomy of the judiciary; consolidate a system of justice that works in a coordinated form; foster a culture of legality; Ensure the imparting of justice, and encourage a culture of legality, among other aspects. Separate the political power of economic power The new Federal Public Administration is committed to an institutional change that reorders unequal social structure, extending social benefits to all sectors, redistribute political power and recovers the commitment of public officials with the Citizens and with the nation. The Government of Mexico promotes actions so that government institutions are not used for the service of corporate interests (business and media) or to consolidate fortunes. Therefore, strict surveillance is maintained to conflicts of interest, legal forms are carried out and electoral processes are monitored. On May 20, 2019, the Decree was published in the DOF, the decrees and various provisions of a general nature issued in terms of Article 39, fraction I of the Federation Fiscal Code, by virtue of which Fiscal debts condoned. This implies that the Executive Branch will not exercise its discretionary faculty to condonate or exempt the payment of contributions to the great taxpayers. Both the Federal Criminal Code and the General Law of Administrative Responsibilities clearly indicate that public officials are prohibited from participating in government decisions where they have a "personal, family or business interest. However, the terrible institutional design for accountability has guaranteed public officials who may miss these rules with total impunity. Therefore, the Government of Mexico has promoted legal changes to prevent and sanction conflicts of interest by public servants. Specifically, the draft Federal Republican Austerity Law incorporates three provisions with this objective: 1. It is established that contracts signed with companies that have been granted for trafficking, corruption or cause harm to public finance will be annulled. The nullity of these contracts can only be declared by the competent judicial authority. 2. A categorical separation between the public function and the particular interest is established. The public servers that separate from their position will not be able to occupy positions in companies that have supervised or regulated or regarding which they have had information in the exercise of their public office, unless they had elapsed at least 10 years. 3. The survey of the corporate veil is established in order to prevent someone from damaging public or private interests by the use of a legal figure. Declarations of patrimonial situation and conflicts of interest have promoted a greater compliance in the presentation of declarations of patrimonial situation and interests in order to facilitate the analysis of the patrimonial evolution of public servants. In addition, greater transparency of declarations has been encouraged. From the first months of the administration, this Government became the first in history in which all members of the Legal and Expanded Cabinet, the Undersecretarians, as well as the Federal Delegates, carried out and made public their patrimonial and interest statements. Additionally, in May 2019, the highest compliance rate was achieved in the presentation of the Declaration of Patrimonial Modification. After a dissemination campaign in which he owned directly from State and Bodies and Entities of the APF, the following achievements were obtained: Dependencies with 100 by Scientove Declarations submitted Dependence given statements% of compliance Meeting of the public function 1,988 100.0 Secretariat of the National Defense 1,645 100.0 Secretariat of Navy 281 100.0 Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit 2,060 100.0 Secretariat of the Environment and Natural Resources 1,221 100.0 Secretariat of Energy 358 100.0 Economy Secretariat 1,051 100.0 Health Secretariat 666 100.0 Culture Secretariat 463 100.0 Tourism Secretariat 173 100.0 Source: Secretariat of Public Service. General Directorate of Responsibilities and Patrimonial Situation. Between December 1 and June 3, 2019, 34,537 advisory consultants were provided, of which there are 4,265 face-to-face consultancies, 20,776 telephone assistance and 9,496 electronic advisory. Finally, the Government of Mexico has reiterated the importance of all public servants to publicize their interest statement. During the Third Ordinary Session 2019 of the Coordinating Committee of the National Anti-Corruption System (SNA), held on July 9, 2019, the aforementioned Committee decided to exempt public servants from the Judicial Power that perform jurisdictional activities (judges, magistrates and ministers) to present This statement. Faced with that event, the SFP presented a particular vote where he said that, in terms of articles 108 of the Political Constitution of the United Mexican States; 32 and 46 of the General Law of Administrative Responsibilities, all public servants, without any distinction, are obliged to present their statement of interest according to the formats determined by the aforementioned Committee, which must be unique and national. Sanctions on bidders, suppliers and contractors in order to separate public interests from private enforcement, legal attributions have been exercised to initiate, substantiate and resolve the sanction procedures to those who are creditors, where appropriate, the Bidders, suppliers and contractors for infringing the current provisions on acquisitions, leases and services, as well as public works and services related to them, whether within the contracting procedures, in the celebration of a contract or during its validity . The objective of the administrative procedure is to ensure the application of infractions to public procurement provisions, in addition to contributing to the inhibition of such behaviors. From December 1, 2018 as of June 30, 2019, the following results were obtained: • 211 resolutions were issued, of which, 136 were sanctionatory (64.5%): 35 are fine and 101 with fine and disqualification, 24 ( 11.4%) were absolluories and 51 (24.2%) were resolved in another sense (uncompected and incompetence). • Fines were imposed by a total amount of 1.411.4 million pesos. • Of 56 resolved means of challenge, 67.9% corresponds to 38 resolutions confirmed by competent authorities with respect to resolutions issued in various fiscal exercises. This proportion is greater than 50% obtained in the period between December 1, 2012 and June 30, 2013, with respect to the 106 means of challenged resolved in this period. Resolution of nonconformities through the disagreement instance is encouraged that the economic resources of the three Government orders are exercised with strict attachment to federal provisions regulating public procurement. This contributes to obtaining better contracting conditions in terms of price, quality, financing and opportunity. From December 1, 2018 as of June 30, 2019, the following results were obtained: • 555 records were resolved, of which, in 295 were determined as coming (53.1%), while in the rest was determined lack of competition or It was disposals or withdrawals (46.9%). From the recorded records, the reasons for dissatisfaction were declared unfounded in 159 cases (28.6%), while in 136 nonconformities (24.5%) the partial or total nullity of the contested act was decreed, as a consequence of determining an action contrary to the standard. The project of guidelines for the accreditation of the sanctions were developed, referred to in both the procurement, leases and services of the public sector, such as public works and services related to them. This with the purpose of homologating with the IAPs the elements to be considered in the integration of each administrative type, which is a pending approval until the issuance of the internal regulations of the Secretariat of the Public Service. The project of the delegatory agreement was developed so that some OIC will carry out the conciliation procedure, which is pending approval until the date of issue of the internal regulations of the Secretariat of Public Service. On the other hand, we have worked on the development of the new sanctions system to bidders, suppliers and contractors. Currently, the determination of the latest requirements is carried out in order to begin the coding and final production of the system. Reconciliations in public procurement processes The SFP promotes the conciliation procedure as an alternative means of solution to disagreements derived from compliance with contracts or orders concluded in accordance with regulations on public procurement. This with the purpose of avoiding unnecessary litigation that delay the execution of contractual obligations and that affect the timely provision of public services. He stressed from December 1, 2018 to June 30, 2019, the following: • 477 reconciliation requests were concluded. Of these, in 343 (71.9%) were determined as coming, of which, in 205 (59.8%), the agreement of will and in 138 (40.2%) were left safe from the rights of the parties. Additionally, 134 files (28.1%) were analyzed and determined as inhale. Training In January 2019, a diagnosis of training needs for the owners of the surveillance and control bodies was carried out, as well as public delegates and curators of the SFP identifying shortcomings in the knowledge and management of the conflict of interest. In response, 1,237 public servants, in the subjects of ethics and integrity and prevention of conflicts of interest has been faced. Because action under conflicts of interest is a serious problem that can be presented in the exercise of public function, a training campaign has been started. This with the purpose of transmitting public server the characteristics, configuration and scope of the conflict of interest. Also, at the request of different instances, 48 ​​consultancies, 16 consultations have been provided and seven Opinions on the possible action under conflicts of interest. Table Actions on Ethics, Public Integrity and Prevention of Conflicts of Interests! ATTENTION TO PUBLIC SERVICES Number Advising on Ethics and Public Integrity. 990 Consultations regarding action protocol on public procurement, granting and extension of licenses, permits, authorizations and concessions. 2 Assistance in the field of action for public procurement, granting and extension of licenses, permits, authorizations and concessions. 647 Consultations regarding conflicts of interest. 16 Assortances on conflicts of interest. 47 opinions regarding conflicts of interest. 7 Source: Secretariat of the Public Function.! 40 training calls for OIC personnel have been issued on issues related to risks in the relationship between public and private interests, such as: patrimonial evolution; public work; Research of behaviors due to possible administrative faults; interest conflict; sanction in public and ethical contracts, among others. The Government of Mexico has developed a comprehensive program of professionalization for people who perform audit functions for public work based on professional competences. This project puts into practice the model of professionalization based on bodies or families of functions. For the construction of the competence standard, it is also with the participation of the unit of ethics, public integrity and prevention of conflicts of interest to integrate an ethical component in said standard. The work identifies, in each of the stages of the public work function, the key aspects within the exercise of the function may present risks of corruption and conflict of interest to strengthen the performance and responsible and ethical work of the public servant. Ethics and prevention committees of conflicts of interest are collegiate bodies, integrated in each of the APF dependencies and entities, as well as in the productive companies of the State. These aim to promote ethics and integrity in public service, as well as the prevention of conflicts of interest through guidance, training and dissemination actions within the public entity in which they are located. It has been worked on the strengthening of the 303 committees through the design of monitoring and evaluation mechanisms of the dissemination and training activities they carry out. Change of paradigm in safety The crisis of violence and insecurity that the country is experiencing, seriously impacts the life of the population and economic activity. Therefore, the Government of Mexico guided its actions to the prevention of violence and crime, to strengthen institutional capacities and improve territorial coordination between the instances of the three government orders. I. Eradicate corruption and reactivate the procurement of justice for the Government of Mexico The eradication of corruption in the Federal Public Administration is a priority, for which actions are implemented that allow, among other things, to make the performance of the servers Public and accountability to the people of Mexico. On February 25, 2019, in the Official Gazette of the Federation, the creation of the Transparency Unit was published and the Transparency Committee of the Secretariat of Security and Citizen Protection (SSPC) was established, whose objective is to generate a culture of Accountability and promote measures for combat to corruption. In this framework, on March 29, 2019, the SSPC holder, presented the Anti-Corruption and Open Government program, reiterating the Government's commitment to the eradication of corruption. Likewise, the deconcentrated administrative body of prevention and social rehabilitation of the Secretariat of Security and Citizen Protection (SSPC), on December 10, 2018 installed the Consultative and Coordination Technical Committee, which held its first ordinary session by allowing a planning, Programming and execution in the management and administration of the penitentiary system. Likewise, on January 17, 2019, the anti-corruption committee of the deconcentrated administrative body prevention and social rehabilitation (OADPRS) was installed, which has as the main function, granting transparency in resource management, accounting and managing comprehensive policies to combat corruption to the Interior of the penitentiary centers. II Ensuring employment, education, health and well-being The SSPC added efforts with the Labor and Social Secretariat, through a collaboration agreement within the "Young Building the Future, signed on January 23, 2019, to link the population from 18 to 29 years old on topics of social prevention of crime and reconstruction of social tissue. In this Agreement, the SSPC undertook to train 1,200 young people in its various areas, for which, has designed a specialized training plan in accordance with its functions and attributions and June 30, 2019, 329 young people were incorporated. III. Full respect for human rights The security institutions of the federal government continuously receive training on human rights and gender perspective, hence between December 2018 and June 2019, the SSPC performed the following actions: • It was trained To the personnel attached to the security forces, teaching 199 courses on human rights and 13 on the issue of gender equality, also received training 7,592 members of the following deconcentrated administrative bodies: Federal Police, Federal Protection Service and OADPRS. The training is aimed at sensitizing the police and penitentiary personnel in order to generate behaviors attached to respect for human rights and equality between women and men. We received 11 recommendations from the National Commission of Human Rights (CNDH), with a total of 74 recommendatory points, of which 19 have been addressed in full and 55 have been partially served. For its part, the Marina Secretariat (SEMAR) in the same period conducted the following: • The "course to prevent serious human rights violations and complementary issues was given to 3,796 naval elements, in collaboration with the CNDH and the International Committee of the Red Cross. • 7,541 troops were trained, in compliance with various recommendations issued by the CNDH, in order to avoid committing acts or omissions that violate the fundamental rights of people. • 23 Elements between Admirals and Captains attended the Diploma "Human Rights in Navaló Operations that taught the CNDH at the Center for Upper Naval Studies (CESNAV), to promote the planning of naval operations with a perspective of respect and protection of rights Fundamental Likewise, the Secretariat of National Defense (SEDENA) developed the following actions: • In coordination with the CNDH and the National Council to prevent discrimination (Conapred), he taught courses, conferences, talks and videoconferences, directed at general, heads, officers and Troop, with which it was trained to 126,778 elements. • The CNDH notified SEDENA, 203 complaints and three recommendations, which are in compliance in accordance with the provisions of the General Law of Victims, international standards on damage repair and respect for protection and respect from the human rights. • In coordination with the Regional Delegation of the International Committee of the Red Cross for Mexico, Central America and Cuba, as of January 29, 2019, five online conferences were taught, training 5,476 elements, on the following topics: right Health on the forced disappearance of people. ! Geneva Convention to improve the luck of the wounded, the patients and the shipwrecked of the armed forces in the sea, the treatment of the prisoners of war, and the protection of civilians in time of war. • As of January 2019, within the "International Event Program" of La Sedena, Lawyers of the Military Justice Service, have participated in :! The "Advanced Studies Program in Human Rights and International Humanitarian Law" and the "Masters Human Rights and International Humanitarian Law at the American University Washington College of Law, in the city of Washington, DC, USA. ! The program of "Professional Visits in the Inter-American Court of Human Rights, in the city of San José, Costa Rica. ! Human rights sensitization workshop, gender and prevention of gender violence in the military education system. IV Ethical regeneration of institutions and society New public ethics The construction of a new public ethics is one of the federal government's priorities, in order to achieve Mexico's transformation towards a prosperous and orderly country, based on just social relations, Democratic, respectful and fraternal. In this sense, the new public ethics focuses the performance of all public servants in favor of society. Thus, the objective of the new public ethics, is to achieve the well-being of all people, around the five constitutional axes of public service, legality, honesty, loyalty, impartiality and efficiency; Based, in a culture of austere public service. By virtue of the above, a strategy has been developed, whose objective is to disseminate, impact and strengthen the tools with which public servants count, with the intention of rethinking integrity in public service; Tools ranging from the creation of deontological instruments where each of the principles and values ​​governing the act of the people incorporated into the exercise of public function, until actions of dissemination and training specialized in topics of ethics and conflict of ethics are established. interest, in order to provide knowledge and strengthen the skills with which the public service staff counts; Taking the ultimate goal, the one of permeating in the mood of all and all those who make up the Federal Public Administration, the vocation of service in favor of society. Recognizing that the new public ethics is not exhausted with the mere publication of deontological instruments, since it also imposes that its contents and reaches, are constantly disseminated among public servants in various ways and means, among which stand out the training and infographics of Ethics of Public Server On February 5, 2019, it was published in the Official Gazette of the Federation, Agreement by which the Code of Ethics of the Public Servants of the Federal Government is issued, which cimientos a new public ethics with the purpose of recovering the confidence of citizenship in the authorities through exemplary performance and excellence against society. This code encourages public servants to formulate ethical judgments regarding their own behaviors, in which they should consider, at all times, the well-being of society as the main objective of their functions. It is important to highlight that this deontological instrument, in accordance with the federal government's policy, incorporated the duty of the public servant so that, in the exercise of its employment, position or commission, seek to consolidate government objectives through a culture of Austere public service, results-oriented, and based on the optimization of resources, guaranteeing efficiency, efficiency and discipline, as well as the value of cooperation. An "illustrated / didactic version of the Code of Ethics, was printed and disseminated among the presidents of the 307 Ethics Committees and Conflict Prevention, as well as the Holders of the ICPs of the APF. The foregoing, with the purpose of addressing international best practices in the field and achieving better reception and internalization by public servants who are constrained to compliance; Taking into account, in addition, the diversity of profiles that are identified in the public service. According to the policies of austerity and optimization of technologies, an electronic version of this version was generated so that each dependence, entity and productive state of the State, was in aptitude of carrying out the corresponding socialization among public servants. Guide for the preparation and updating of the Code of Conduct on April 22, 2019, the "Guide for the Preparation and Update of the Code of Conduct of the Dependencies and Entities of the Federal Public Administration was issued, as well as for the productive companies of the State , which served as a frame of reference to guide the elaboration of the respective code of conduct, by these institutions, which must observe all public servants of the public entity in question. It is important to note that this guiding document provides that for the preparation of the Code of Conduct, the Dependencies, Entities and Productive Companies of the State, must align the same with its mission, vision, specific attributions, ethical risks and the areas identified as susceptible to them, in order to achieve a unique and identity tool for Las and public servants, who contribute to: • 1) the identification and appropriation of public servants with their institution; 2) give certainty of the behavior that should be observed and submitted in their daily work; 3) guide ethical judgment in decision-making in difficult or complex situations that are presented in the performance of their employment, position or commission, and 4) prevent, through measures and recommendations, the updating of conflicts of interest, Acts of corruption and, in general, any administrative lack, within the framework of the functions inherent in the areas of risk. V. Reforming the combat to drugs The Government of Mexico promotes a change of approach to the problem of addictions. For this, he launched the National Addiction Prevention Strategy "Together by La Pazó, which was presented in May 2019 and aims to prevent and reduce the use of psychoactive substances in girls, children and young people, with a focus of Gender, for the construction of peace, from the following axes of intervention: • a) Community and social participation, b) Health, c) Wellness, d) Economic inclusion, e) Urban improvement, f) Education and sport, g) culture and communication, h) Safety and social cohesion. This strategy works in coordination with other instances of the Federal Government, of the state, social and private sectors with the aim of building and consolidating a comprehensive substance prevention and abuse prevention policy, without leaving aside the attention, monitoring and rehabilitation of Those who are already immersed in this condition, avoiding the criminalization of consuming persons, and guaranteeing respect for human rights. In this context, the following was carried out: • The National Commission against Addictions became a diagnosis on the situation of drugs in Mexico, which was presented at the national level on July 17. Likewise, in coordination with the Secretary of Health, in the Mexican Observatory of Drugs, situational diagnoses of the demand for care for drug users are developed at the municipal level. • Dissemination of different information was performed through social networks using the Hashtag #ComosCucharte and #JumpPorlapaz, which have had from July 24 to 27, an approximate scope of 33,000 users. • Within the framework of the International Day against misuse and illicit drug trafficking, preventive actions at the national level were intensified, benefiting 86,860 people. • The National Commission against Addictions deployed actions to reduce the prevalence in alcohol, tobacco and illicit drug consumption through 341 medical specialization units, in primary care centers in addictions, located in the 32 federative entities. In the units, it was mainly worked with population of 12 to 17 years of age, considered the most vulnerable population for the consumption of psychoactive substances. From December 1, 2018 as of June 30, 2019, coverage reached 2,747,929 beneficiaries who participated in prevention actions. • Within the timely detection strategies, 365,087 screening tests were applied to basic and intermediate students, 61,817 students at the risk of consumption of psychoactive substances or with initial consumption, are detected, 30,520 attended medical specialty units. in centers Primary care in addictions to request treatment. • 27,065 people who applied for treatment in such units due to substance use were treated. According to the impact drug, they came: 9,412 with problems related to alcohol consumption; 8,273 with marijuana consumption; 2,650 with tobacco consumption; 4,559 by methamphetamines; 562 by inhalables and solvents; 894 By cocaine, and 715 requested care for consumption from other psychoactive substances (benzodiazepines, opiates, hallucinogens and barbiturates). • In addition, 211,521 treatment sessions were provided, of these 52,898 were first-time consultations, which corresponds to the first contact with the user who requests a service in the Attention Unit. • The units carried out 7,315 psychoeducational workshops for the benefit of 198,619 people, in which girls, children, adolescents, mothers and parents, as well as teachers participated. In the promotion of the active participation of the community to report on the risks and damages of the consumption of psychoactive substances, as well as the promotion of healthy lifestyles, from December 1, 2018 as of June 30, 2019, the following stands out : • The National Commission against Addictions trained 7,701 promoters in projects and strategies aimed at reducing risk factors and to strengthen protection for the benefit of 458,280 people. • Continued coordination with 126 community coalitions in 24 federal entities, for the promotion of self-managed communities in the search for strategies that favor healthy lifestyles through sports, culture, art, among others, and where the community participates actively with actions focused on reconstruction of social tissue. • From December 1, 2018 as of May 31, 2019, as part of the actions of health promotion derived from the "National Strategy for the Prevention of Alcoholic Beverages In Minors, 684 Visits to Commercial Establishments were held for sale of alcoholic beverages, in which 4,139 people were oriented on the risks of consumption of alcoholic beverages by minors. With the National Alcoholimetry Program "Drive without alcoholó, 17 follow-up visits were made. SAW. Undertake the construction of peace within the framework of the Territorial Coordination Strategy for the Construction of Peace, between December 2018 and June 2019, 83 joint operations were performed (Sedena, Semar, and State Police) with other authorities of the Three Government Orders, in which 3,267 crimes were attended, with the purpose of strengthening safe environments to citizens. • Stresses the "operative operative that focused specific actions to prevent the extraction or illegal distribution of hydrocarbons in the states of Mexico, Hidalgo, Jalisco, Veracruz, Querétaro, Tamaulipas, Guanajuato, Nuevo León, Puebla and Mexico City, achieved the following Results: Assurance of 589 clandestine shots, 1,065 safety supports were provided and 1,822 auto tanks were escorted; In addition, it was participated in the execution of 6,268 zone recognition actions, 493 patrols and 58 inspection points on the main routes of supply and networking in coordination with Mexican Petróleos, the Secretariat of the National Defense and the Secretariat of Marina. • Through the program for the strengthening of citizen trust and promotion of the complaint, six events were carried out with the assistance of 1,413 people and, at the main airports, booths and roads of the country, They delivered 15,242 media printed on citizenship, to promote complaint through telephone number 088. VII. Recovery and dignification of prisons Between December 1, 2018 and June 30, 2019, the following actions were carried out: • In the National Registry of Penitentiary Information (RNIP), 2,255 incidents were captured in prison centers, reaching a Total of 6,792 records from its implementation in December 2016. In addition, 29,827 persons deprived of freedom, with which a total of 1,963,762 registered persons were achieved. • 1,721 revision operatives were executed within the federal centers of social rehabilitation (ceferesons), which have become permanent in favor of penitentiary security and to end the self-government existing in the penitentiary centers of the country. • On March 8, 2019, the Decree for which the federal social reappointment centers indicated in the Penitentiary Social Complex were published from the Penitentiary System (DOF). Form, was allocated to the establishment of an environmental education center for girls, children and young people who will bear the name of "Water Walls, José Reviewer and will be in charge of the Secretariat of Environment and Natural Resources (SEMARNAT). The 652 people deprived of the freedom of this penitentiary center were transferred as follows: 584 to the Federal Center for Social Rehabout (Cefee) 18 Ramos Arizpe; Two to the Federal Psychosocial Rehabilitation Center (CefeRepsi) Morelos; 12 to Cefee 8 Guasave; 31 To the State of Social Rehabilitation (Cereson) "El Castillo Mazatlán and 16 without a list of a knowledge of the Federal Public Ministry and seven were anticipated freedoms. An annual savings of 727 million pesos is estimated by the disinstruction of this complex. VIII Articulating national security, public safety and peace The Government of Mexico understands national security as an indispensable condition to guarantee national integrity and sovereignty, free of threat to the State, in order to build a lasting and fruitful peace. Between December 2018 and June 2019, the current administration carried out the following activities: • To establish a national intelligence system, the Government of Mexico continued by endowing the National Intelligence Center and the armed forces of institutional elements and capacities to prevent risks and Disadence threats that violate the country. With the reforms to the Organic Law of the Federal Public Administration, published on November 30, 2018, the disappearance of the National Research and Safety Center (CISEN) is formalized. ! The National Intelligence Center (CNI) was assigned to the Secretariat of Safety and Citizen Protection (SSPC) as a deconcentrated administrative body that will serve as a system of research and information, which contributes to preserving the integrity, stability and permanence of the Mexican State , Give sustenance to national unity, preserve social cohesion and strengthen government institutions. In the framework of the broad and comprehensive concept of national security, established in the National Development Plan 2019-2024 and in the National Public Safety Strategy 2018-2024, the CNI developed the National Agenda of Risks 2019, in which risks and threats to national security were identified and prioritized, especially those that can affect the well-being of the population. ! The project was delivered to the Technical Secretary of the National Security Council on March 21, 2019 and, subsequently, was submitted to the National Security Council for approval, as well as the Bicameral National Security Commission of the Honorable Union Congress, Addressing the following: Through inter-institutional coordination, the generation of intelligence was strengthened to combat corruption, violence and organized crime, which represents a fundamental element in the federal government's security strategy. Additionally, the collection, processing and analysis of information, derived from the process of fusion of specialized intelligences, allowed the neutralization of relevant objectives of organized crime. It contributed to the combat of hydrocarbons theft by participating in various inter-institutional coordination mechanisms. Intelligence packages were drawn up that allowed the identification of leaders, collaborators and facilitators of this illicit in the states of Aguascalientes, Coahuila, Mexico, Guanajuato, Nuevo León, Puebla, Querétaro, Tlaxcala and Zacatecas. In terms of uncontrolled migratory flows, information exchange capacities with Guatemala, Honduras and Republic of El Salvador were oriented, which allowed anticipating scenarios on the mobility of irregular migratory groups to Mexico as part of its journey to the United States of America (USA). The development of migrant caravans from Central America was followed up. As part of the international commitments of the Government of Mexico derived from the Convention on Chemical Weapons, the report "Annual Declaration of Activities was developed, which was sent on March 28, 2019 to the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons . ! To deal in a timely threats, adverse, real or potential national security factors, SEDENA updated the "Strategic Information Estimate 2019, document that contributes to the conditions of peace and internal security, which allow the validity of the rule of law and the presence of the institutions of the Mexican State, thus guaranteeing national development. ! The Naval Intelligence Unit (UNIN) supported with timely and reliable intelligence information, to contribute to organized crime in combat and guarantee national security: in order to strengthen intelligence activities in the coastal States of the national territory, They operate five regional naval intelligence centers, in which they generated 901 intelligence products to support the planning of naval operations in their respective jurisdictions. It developed 101 strategic intelligence products, to provide an international and national outlook of the fields of power, eight intelligence products on maritime domain issues, organized, drug trafficking, internal security and subversion. Was advocated with the National Fund for Tourism (Fonatur) for the development of the "Mayan train, with The delivery of 678 satellite images of very high resolution, from the historical archive, which covers an area of ​​15 kilometers wide with respect to the route axis of the route that passes through Chiapas, Tabasco, Campeche and Yucatán. Additionally, another 55 satellite images of very high resolution were collected in Chiapas, Tabasco, Campeche, Yucatán and Quintana Roo. These activities allow you to perform the trace of the road and the work process, covering 10,679 square kilometers, equivalent to 90% of the area of ​​interest of the project. • To strengthen and maintain the country's internal security and ensure Mexico's foreign defense, the current administration promoted actions from consensus with the main political forces represented in the Honorable Congress of the Union, for the approval of seven legislative reforms in the subject. ! Decree for which the Organic Law of the General Prosecutor's Office of the Republic is issued, which aims to regulate the organization, the functioning and exercise of its powers, as an autonomous public body (DOF 14 December 2018). Decree by which they reform, add various provisions of the Political Constitution of the United Mexican States in national guard (DOF March 26, 2019). ! Decree by which article 19 of the Political Constitution of the United Mexican States is declared, in terms of informal preventive prison (DOF April 12, 2019). ! Decree by which the National Guard Law (DOF May 27, 2019) is issued. ! Decree for which the National Law on the use of force (DOF 27, 2019) is issued. ! Decree for which the National Law of the Detention Registry (DOF May 27, 2019) is issued .1 /! Decree by which they are reforming, adding various articles of the General Law of the National Public Security System (DOF May 27, 2019) .2 /! Regulation of the National Guard Law, which aims to establish the Organization, Structure and Operation of the National Guard; Institution of public safety, civil, disciplined and professional, assigned as a deconcentrated administrative body of the Security and Citizen Protection Secretariat, as well as regulating the national guard career, its disciplinary regime and the stimuli applicable to its staff (DOF 29 of June 2019). 1 / Registration will aim to establish an updated data bank with information that allows us to identify and locate people immediately after their detention, by the probable commission of a crime or possible administrative infringement, by members of public safety institutions or by judicial mandate. Likewise, a public consultation mechanism will be implemented, the physical location of the person arrested and authority to whose provision is, guaranteeing access to the information of detainees and deprived of freedom, as well as Of his family, advocates and other people with legitimate interests in information. 2 / This system will concentrate and systematize all the security information of public safety institutions of the three government orders and will include: arrests records, biometric data of persons who are detained or processed, databases of criminal statistics on personnel of these institutions, weapons, equipment and vehicles; of the justice system: precautionary measures, alternate solutions, forms of early termination; Data of sentences as well as others that are considered necessary for the prevention, research and persecution of crimes. • In order to promote the concept of national security culture postulated by the Government to contribute to collective knowledge on the subject, the following was carried out:! The School of Intelligence for National Security (ESISEN) was consolidated as an instance of Training of professional paintings, as well as an inter-institutional coordination space for the development of a doctrine of intelligence and the dissemination of the national security culture. In April 2019, in La Esisen initiated the third edition of the Postgraduate called "Specialty in National and Regional Safety Analysis, which were invited public servants of 18 institutions of the Federal Public Administration. A course on intelligence analysis was given to 17 servers from the Secretariat of Public Service. In the facilities of the Center for Naval Studies, teachers of La Esisen, they dictated a conference and a workshop on intelligence analysis to 37 students of the Master's Degree in National Security. • To improve the technological capabilities of scientific research in the fields of public safety, internal security, generation of strategic intelligence and procurement of justice, between December 1, 2018 as of June 30, 2019, the following activities were carried out :! He created the Portal of the National Security Report1 / (INS) aimed at citizens, which discloses incidents of incidents of piled homicides and stolen cars, as well as theft of hydrocarbons. ! The development of thermal cartographic maps was coordinated for the determination of the criminal incidence in the 266 regions 1 / http://www.informeseguridad.cns.gob.mx/ priority and designed the operating model of the national registry of arrests and the New information system for public safety. • From December 1, 2018 as of June 30, 2019, five new new automated mechanisms (buses) were incorporated into the Information Information and Exchange, reaching a total of 95, which allows it to have replicas of Timely information, keep updated national information records in support of crime prevention and research. In this regard, it stands out:! The National Registry of Public Safety Personnel was updated, which, it has 2,081,624 of people from Public Safety and Procurement Institutions in the country, as well as private security companies; of which 790,176 (37.95%) correspond to active personnel. ! 1,399,872 (2.7%) vehicles have been registered through the public registration, reaching a total of 51,841,868. ! The record of vehicles stolen and recovered as of June 30, 2019, has 3.8 million records with theft report, of which 2.4 million (63.1%) are with stolen status and 1.4 million (36.9%) with status of recovered. The number of records increased by 3.2% with respect to the figure observed as of November 30, 2018. In the register of judicial commandments, 75,940 (3.7%) judicial records were integrated, reaching a total of 2,059,110, of which 829,295 (40.3%) are current commandments. ! The records of the approved police report were increased from 19.4 million as of December 1, 2018 to 20.7 million as of June 30, 2019, of them, 89.3% have cartographic reference; time decreased time of capture, achieving that 62.6% are registered within the first 24 hours. • The bases for the creation of a single biometric national identification document were built. In order to integrate quality information regarding fingerprint biometrics, palmers, footrest fragments collected at the scene, voices and faces, there is the following results: biometric records (accumulated data) Concept December 2018 June 2019 VAR (%) Fingerprint Registration 8,996,694 9,235,197 2.65% Palms Registration 2,800,146 2,953,536 5.48% FRAGMENT FRAGMENT 867,755 898,395 3.53% PHOTOGRAPH OF PHOTOGRAPHS 1,269,221 1,319,020 3.92% p / figures as of June 30, 2019. Source: Security Secretariat and Citizen protection.ix. Rethink national security and reorient the armed forces without abandoning their constitutional missions to ensure national security and territorial integrity, the preservation of national sovereignty and the assistance to the population in cases of disaster, it is imperative that the armed forces participate in The construction of peace. Thus, so far this administration has been a fundamental part in the training, structuring and training of the National Guard, which should assume the functions of preservation of strategic facilities and civil protection at the federal level in all its Aspects. Disappearance of the presidential staff attending to the presidential mandate on December 1, 2018, the Presidential Staff ceased, rejoining the Secretariat of National Defense 6,025 military personnel and the Navy of Mexico 717 naval elements that were commissioned. Meetings with the Safety Cabinet As of December 3, 2018, the Secretary of National Defense and the Marine Secretary, have attended 145 and 147 Security Cabinet meetings, respectively, to guarantee the peace and tranquility of the Mexicans During the meetings, convincing agreements have been reached to reduce the criminal index in the 32 states of the Republic, contributing in the achievement of pacification of the country, as a center of gravity in attachment to the new national public safety strategy. Infrastructure and military equipment The armed forces are fundamental institutions to guarantee national security, in order to strengthen its responsiveness, between December 1, 2018 and June 30, 2019, the following activities carried out: • The Secretary of the National Defense (Sedena) Modernizes the infrastructure of the military industry. Through the project "Transformation and Modernization of the Military Industry, it optimized the production and maintenance of the war material; As of June 30, 2019, SEDENA has an advance of 99.1% in the third phase of construction of the new facilities of the military industry (civil work and equipment) and 15.5% in its fourth phase (civil work, equipment, transfer and acquisition of machinery). These works are carried out in "La Celló, located in the municipality of East, Puebla. ! 654,084 costume items, footwear, flags, banners, campaign equipment and office furniture were manufactured and also carried out 1,925 maintenance services at 2,059 machines installed in 18 factories, as well as Also, 11 improvements and innovations to the costume and military equipment. Additionally, 1,204 elements were trained on issues related to training, technical and administrative specialization. • For its part, the Marina Secretariat (SEMAR), advanced in the renewal of the Aeronaval Fleet, with the transfer of two Learjet 45 aircraft from the Federal Police, which increased air support for the transport of its staff. In addition, the Ship Substitution Program continues, which have exceeded its period of useful life, to maintain the operational capacity of the naval fleet, with the following actions:! On May 24, 2019, the delivery was made reception of the ship of Oceanic Surveillance Class Oaxaca ARM "Jaliscó (PO-167), and the construction of Helmet No. 104 (ARM" Tabascoó) was continued at the shipyard of Navy No. 1 in Tampico, Tamaulipas, with an advance of 76.40%. ! A long-range oceanic patrol is in construction process, in the shipyard of Marina No. 20 in Salina Cruz, Oaxaca with an advance of 91.91%. ! Likewise, he strengthened his operational response capabilities with the construction and remodeling of the following infrastructure works: concluded: complementary works of the Specialized Training and Training Center of Marine Infantry in San Luis Carpin, Campeche; Remodeling and relocation of the facilities of the Naval University and the Cybersecurity Unit, General Naval Hospital, Naval Studies Center in Health Sciences, and Building of the Institute of Strategic Research of the Navy of Mexico in the city of Mexico; Optoelectronic maintenance center of Mexico Navy in San José Chiapa, Puebla, and Advanced Naval Station in San Felipe, Baja California Sur. In process: Modernization of the facilities of the Center for Naval Studies (building of academic support and services), remodeling of the General Naval Hospital of High Specialty in Mexico City (third stage and relocation of nuclear medicine). • In the exercise of the Maritime Authority, the following actions were held: January 10, 2019, the 552 Secretarial Agreement Agreement was created in the Official Journal of the Federation (CCTM ) of the Campeche probe. May 10, 2019, the Specific Convention of Semar-Pemex Exploration and Production Collaboration was signed, relating to the maritime traffic control of the Campeche probe, with these actions, the capacities of the national maritime authority will be increased to regulate and monitor The maritime traffic control of the Campeche probe. In order to strengthen communications with state-of-the-art technology for the transmission of voice and data services, the Unit of Port and Maritime Affairs, installed 188 band satellite terminals "Ló to Port Captainias and Naval Units of Port protection. Military and naval education The professional performance of military and naval elements was improved. Between December 2018 and June 30, 2019, 9,145 young cadets graduated, of which 4,558 were military schools and 4,587 elements of naval educational campuses. • Of the members of the Army and Air Force that graduated, 3,481 corresponded to training, 10 to specialization and 1,067 to training. • Of the total graduates of the Navy of Mexico: 275 are of training, 414 specialization and 3,898 training and training. • In January 2019, the specialty of operational logistics began, being the first graduate directed to the graduates of the heroic military naval school and the School of Engineers of the Navy, who attended undergraduate careers in Logistics, Naval Mechanical Engineer and engineering in electronics and naval communications; To continue with your training and professional development. Surveillance and protection of the national territory To safeguard integrity and safety in the national territory, from December 1, 2018 as of June 30, 2019, the armed forces carried out 150,271 territory surveillance operations, airspace and national seas (Sedena 128,221; Semar 22,050) with the participation of 116,218 troops (Sedena 102,590; Semar 13,628). • The operations carried out by La Signa, meant to travel 29.6 million kilometers: 28 million kilometers via land and 1.6 million kilometers via air. • On the other hand, during the operations carried out by the SEMAR, the surface units sailed 338.6 thousand nautical miles; Aircraft flew 1.6 million nautical miles and the marine infantry battalions toured 1.1 million kilometers on land. Additionally, 163,265 inspections were executed: 94,206, 37,955 were performed, 37,955 to containers, 1,838 to boats, 28,925 to vehicles and 341 to aircraft. The SEMAR with the following actions, carried out between December 2018 and June 2019, in support of the security of recreational vessels and the application of the lifeguard operation, the security conditions for the development of national and international tourism were strengthened in the Marine areas and Mexican beaches. • Provided escort and security at 553 tourist cruises both in its national waters' navigation, such as during your stay and sailing of Mexican ports. In these actions, 481 naval elements, 13 surface units and 62 vehicles carried out a total of 2,098 maritime and land travelers in springs and bays of the country. • Implemented life-changing operations in the 2018 winter holiday periods and Easter 2019, with the participation of 8,941 naval elements, 101 vessels, 375 minor boats, 37 aircraft and 655 terrestrial vehicles. He rescued 168 people who were in danger of drowning; He locked and delivered his families to 229 lost minors. ! It provided 779 medical attentions; He leaned on seven occasions on the transfer to hospitals, helping 15 boats and four land vehicles, among others. • Supported various marginalized coastal communities, with the average monthly participation of 408 naval elements, was provided 16,218 medical and dental services, applied 367,538 doses of biological in five vaccination campaigns, 84 medical talks and 25 campaigns against obesity and overweight, distributed 5 A thousand liters of drinking water supplied 38 pieces of medications, with these actions benefited from 809,528 people. • The Marine Plan was activated in its "Auxiliary Phase due to Affectations caused by heavy rains in Reynosa, Tamaulipas; From June 25 to 28, 2019, where it was helped to the civilian population with the preparation and distribution of 1,760 dry rations and 945 liters of bottled water, 16 medical consultations were provided and five people were evacuated. Four operations were carried out with the Participation of 39 naval elements and five vehicles type command, for the benefit of 1,781 people. • By presidential mandate, the SEMAR launched the program of attention to the problem of Sargazo in the Mexican Caribbean. As of May 2019 he has carried out actions in conjunction with other government agencies, the tourist and academic sectors, to meet the arrival of the Sargazo in the Costa of the Mexican Caribbean, elaborating protocols and guidelines that allow to combine efforts in the collection and control of Sargazo in The sea, as well as, along the coasts of the state of Quintana Roo. As of June 30, 2019, 152.85 tonnes of Sargazo have been collected at sea and 26,213 tons on beaches of the municipalities of Quintana Roo. • By instructions by the President of the Republic, it provided international humanitarian aid at the following events: from December 1, 2018 as of June 30, 2019, the Navy Plan Aid phase was activated with the purpose of providing humanitarian aid and contributing With the civil authorities in the control of the migratory flow that comes from Central America (Salvador, Honduras and Guatemala). ! In Hostels installed in Ciudad Hidalgo, Chiapas; Tijuana, Baja California and in Mexico City, 410,049 food rations were prepared and distributed, 21,139 liters of bottled water and 28,986 liters of hot beverages, with the participation of 13 mobile kitchens, 14 vehicles, 16 minor boats, with participation Monthly average of 31 naval elements, with these actions benefited from 401,969 people. Surveillance of strategic facilities La Sedena provides protection and safety to strategic facilities through peripheral security and daytime and night patrols, for this task maintains a deployment of 7,915 elements in installations of: Petróleos Mexicanos (PEMEX) Tax Administration Service, Federal Commission of Electricity (CFE), National Water Commission, National Natural Gas Control Center, Roads and Federal Revenue Bridges and Related Services, National Institute of Nuclear Research and Airports and Auxiliary Services. The Navy of Mexico, maintained a permanent operational deployment in 54 productive companies of the State, of which 43 belong to Pemex, 11 to the CFE and one more to the Nitrogen company of Cantarell SA of CV, distributed on both coastlines and in the Campeche probe. • He made 4,440 air maritime and terrestrial patrols, in which 13,201 nautical miles were sailed, 6,997 nautical miles were flewed and 313,382 kilometers were traveled, with the participation of a monthly average of 1,086 naval elements, a vessel, five smaller boats and 13 vehicles terrestrials The Semar conducted dredging works, in order to maintain safe navigation conditions in the access channels, springs and port facilities, guaranteeing security on arrival and sailboat from the Navy of Mexico, commercial and tourist type, In support of national maritime development. • A total of 177,527 cubic meters of extracted material were drafted, in the following places: Dredging of Emerging Maintenance on the main channel of the Port Chiapas Reunion, in Chiapas, Chis., Emerging dredging in the access channel of the wet marine of the Heroic military naval school in Anton Lizardo, Veracruz, Veracruz, and construction dredging in the Campeche tube at the Search Naval Station, Rescue and Maritime Surveillance in two Bocas, Tabasco, with the purpose of keeping the navigation areas under appropriate conditions . International cooperation The Sedena improved the international cooperation mechanisms to strengthen the safety and defense of sovereignty. • As part of Memorandum of Understanding on Information Exchange Elements of the Signa participated in various work meetings, one held in Madrid, Spain (January 14 to 19, 2019) and two carried out in Mexico City, one with Nicaragua (March 25 and 26, 2019) and another with the Republic of Korea (June 28 to July 2, 2019). • At the American Army Conference, in February 2019, it was participated in the Specialized Conference "Counteracting networks threatened, in the city of San Antonio, Texas, USA; as well as at the specialized conference "military leadership of American armies in the 21st century: challenges and proposals, carried out in the city of Santiago de Chile, in April 2019. Likewise, inter-agency operations in medium protection Environment Natural Resources held in the city of Puerto Iguazú, Argentina in June 2019. • In February 2019, it was participated in the XXXII Committee of the Cooperation System between the American Air Forces, in the city of Brasilia, Federal Republic of Brazil; As in the LIX event of the Committee, in the city of Punta Cana, Dominican Republic, in May 2019. • In the framework of the Arms Trade Treaty, in April 2019, the course on "Capacity Building was attended for the effective implementation of the Treaty on Arms Trade; Likewise, in March 2019, it was participated in the program seminar related to the management of conventional ammunition. • In May 2019, it was participated in the First Conference of Ciberdefense in the Western Hemisphere of the Inter-American Defense Board, held at the Soldier's House in Washington, D.C. • To maintain military bilateral relations that encourage and promote the collaboration and exchange of ideas, experiences and information, on defense, elements of SEDENA participated between December 2018 and June 2019, in 18 international events, of the which stand out the following:! 15 border commanders were held with the North Command, of the United States of America (USA) and Armed Forces of Guatemala and Belize, with the aim of fostering cooperation in security in the border strip common north and south of our country; as well as strengthen the actions to inhibit the activities carried out by transnational organized crime. ! Three local coordination meetings were held with the Guatemala and Belize armed forces, in order to exchange information of common interest, on the situation of the border area and plan the execution of patrols, acting each armed force in their respective territory, with full respect for the sovereignty of each country; Participating 24 representatives by Mexico and by Guatemala and Belize, 20 representatives of both nations. ! The Northern Comandant of the United States of America, on March 5 and 6, 2019, visited the facilities of the SEMAR, which was received by the Secretary of National Defense and the Secretary of Marina, whose purpose was Encourage coordination and cooperation with the US armed forces, on security and defense issues. ! Two military personnel participated in the deployment of the hospital ship "comforted from the USA, during the period from June 14 to November 15, 2019, with the end to support the efforts of medical services in communities in Central America countries. Training was provided to 315 military of the Haiti armed forces, within the framework of the Capacity Development Strategy for the Mobilization of the Armed Forces, focused on strengthening human capital to promote self-sufficiency and training. On the other hand, the SEMAR, between December 1, 2018 as of June 30, 2019, participated in the following events: • In the framework of cooperation with foreign countries, to strengthen the responsiveness and professional development, it maintains ties of Friendship with the friends, so in coordination with US Marine Forces North, for its acronym in English, taught courses to naval staff in the different centers of the Navy of Mexico. • In order to increase experience, put into practice the doctrine and interact operationally with friends, 29 cadets and seven marine infantry instructors participated in the year "Tradewinse, held in Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic. • The Working Group for Peacekeeping Operations, established the joint strategy of participation in cited operations, as well as prepare the participation of Mexico at the United Nations Ministerial Peacekeeping Conference. • In the XIX Border Commanders Board Mexico, Mexico Ð Belize, regional security issues were addressed, coordinating and planning regional cooperation in terms of security cooperation. • In the XII Maritime Cooperation Meeting among the Navy of Mexico and the National Navy of Colombia, cooperation agreements were established in subjects of naval operations, intelligence, instruction and training. • In the 3rd. Meeting of major States between the SEMAR and the US Coast Guard, it was agreed to cooperate in terms of maritime authority, maintenance of the rule of law, search and rescue and training. • At the Safety Conference of Central America 2019, in which they participated: Belize, Republic of El Salvador, Costa Rica, Guatemala, Panama and Honduras; And as observers: USA, Colombia, Dominican Republic and Mexico, was agreed to interact on the role of military and security forces in the fight against systems that support transnational organized crime. • At the United Nations Peace Maintenance Ministerial Conference, conducted in the United Nations Units (UN), in New York, EUA, in order to give continuity to the support provided by the Mexican armed forces to the UN. • At the Third Conference of Heads of State's Defense, in the UN Headquarters Building, in New York, EUA, in order to give continuity to the support provided by the Mexican armed forces to cited organism. Civil Protection December 2018 As of June 30, 2019, the Government of Mexico conducted risk prevention and application of action protocols to emergency situations, in addition to implementing a comprehensive and inclusive risk and risk-mitigation strategy in which it is They find many areas and regions of the country. The National Emergency Committee implemented in a coordinated manner, preparedness and reaction actions by federal, state and municipal dependencies and entities, with the purpose of providing a timely and efficient response to the population versus emergencies. Before the explosion and fire by the clandestine intake of hydrocarbons in Tlahuellpan, Hidalgo; On January 18, 2019, said Committee ran daily from January 18 to 24, with the participation of 23 dependencies and entities of the Federal Public Administration. The Government of Mexico contributed to the decision-making and implementation of risk prevention strategies through the generation and dissemination of information, between December 1, 2018 and June 30, 2019, the Atlas was updated. National risks, so it was consolidated as a useful tool in territorial planning, for emergency care and during reconstruction, with a total of 9,258 layers of information on hazards, vulnerabilities, risks, risk scenarios, phenomena modeling, among others. It also contains geological, hydrological, natural resources and other items on the country. • Two web applications were developed for the National Civil Protection Coordination (CNPC) on the following dates and objectives: January 19, 2019, the National Strategy for Fuel Theft transported through ducts 'Huachicol', with the objective to locate the clandestine shots and the trajectory of the ducts; It allows the location in the 91 municipalities with the highest incidence of this problem. ! On May 3, 2019, the application of work centers for the Young Program Building the Future, aimed at visualizing the statistics of the tutor centers, the number of youth inscribed at the municipal, state and national level; It allows observing the progress that is placed in the country with 937 tutor centers and 8,930 young people enrolled in 716 municipalities. • The National Map of Susceptibility to the Instability of Slopes was updated, for this, nine danger maps of the New Leon states, San Luis Potosí and Tamaulipas, were prepared for return periods of 2, 5 and 10 years. • The systematization of information on priority municipalities affected by cyclones, floods, earthquakes and landslides was performed. With this basis, the following actions were performed:! Preparation of the first stage of scenarios of coastal floods by hurricanes for the implementation of emergency plans. ! The diagnosis of early warning systems at flooding (SAT-I) in Mexico. ! Preparation of the Flood Catalog 2019. An alerting strategy before flooding in rural populations. • In December 2018 the development was raised by the "Predenso Plan that includes the promotion of preventive actions, response and coordination protocols of great magnitude, the elaboration of the guide for risk reduction and the strengthening of the seismic network Mexican With a prevention approach, susceptibility studies of infrastructure, building, and vital line systems were carried out. The National Disaster Prevention Center (CENAPRED) modernized four seismic sensors from the seismic observation network, and incorporated the Common Alert Protocol to the Message Format of the Seismic Alert System. • The National Center for Communication and Civil Protection Operation updated 10 databases related to monitoring to state civil protection units. The Government of Mexico complied with the commitment to the population in civil protection, where public servants were governed and acted with high quality rates with Base on continuous training through the following programs between January and June 2019: • The Basic Technical Academic Program in Integral Risk Management in 2019 registered the 8th. Generation, started on April 19, 2019 with 26,458 registered persons and 5,056 graduates. • The National Military Service Program on Civil Protection for Companies and Training Centers of the Secretariat of National Defense (SEDENA) and the Marina Secretariat (SEMAR), recorded 31,190 people with 231 hours in weekly modality and 60 hours in Sabatine modality. • The Course called: "Minimum safety guidelines in racing situations, trained and certified 17 municipal headlines for civil protection in the EC0908 competition standard" Preparation of special civil protection programs according to risk, in the state of Hidalgo. • In the Mesoamerican Network for Integral Risk Management, 22 persons participated in the Workshop-Meeting of Links of the Communicators Network in Risk Management and the Strategic Communication Group of the Mesoamerica Project, carried out in the Republic of El Salvador on days 27 and May 28, 2019, with the aim of improving the quality and usefulness of disaster risk information in the Mesoamerica region. • Four homologation workshops were taught from the operational plans of the Popocatépetl volcano to 20 people from the state coordinations of civil protection of Puebla, Morelos, State of Mexico and Tlaxcala. • In April 2019, the course-workshop was taught for the preparation of operations continuity plans to 1,200 people from 256 dependencies of the three Government Orders in Guanajuato, Colima, Hidalgo, Sinaloa, Guerrero, Chihuahua, Durango, Tabasco, Sonora , Tlaxcala, Campeche and Mexico City. • In order to incorporate the population into risk prevention actions, a catalog was integrated with an offer of 17 free workshops on risk prevention issues. In addition, broadcast programs were carried out in indigenous languages ​​with civil protection messages in 10 S variants to have a better dissemination of civil protection culture. • Three dries were performed with a hypothesis of increasing activity of the Popocatépetl volcano (two in Puebla and one in Morelos) with the participation of 700 people among inhabitants and officials of the three government orders. In June, work meetings were held with personnel from the State Civil Protection Coordinations of Colima and Jalisco, to agree on the process of approval of the corresponding operational plans of the Colima Fire Volcano. • 1,200 people were trained in person and in a distance modality 4,326 people from the three orders of government and the population in 25 federal entities. • The distance courses hosted on Mexico X and Moodle platforms, as of June 2019 reported 13,587 people registered and 1,154 graduates. • Introductory and training courses for coordinators and task force suppliers of the external radiological emergency plan (Pere), instructed 293 elements. Likewise, it was trained in civil protection issues to 25 thousand conscripts distributed in the companies and training centers of the SEDENA. • State councils of civil protection were installed and 31 courses-face-to-face workshops were taught with the participation of 1,335 members of civil protection systems in the three government orders of six federal entities: Mexico City, Chiapas, State of Mexico , Guerrero, Tlaxcala and Zacatecas. • Comments were analyzed and commented on 41 special state programs and 120 programs Municipal Specials. Three face-to-face workshops were taught with the participation of 200 members of state and municipal units of civil protection. In terms of dissemination, during the first half of 2019, events and academic acts related to the integral management of disaster risk were carried out; New publications were integrated into the collection and the catalog of the cenapred library. • Printed publications on disaster prevention and civil protection were distributed, messages were developed with preventive information for dissemination in social networks, attention was given to media and interviews with specialists were coordinated. • Daily, monthly reports and technical summaries of the popocatépetl volcano activity were carried out based on the monitoring parameters, developers of recognition, diagnosis and recommendations. December 2018 to June 2019, three press conferences were held to publicize the volcanic activity and civil protection recommendations for the exposed population. ! During February and March 2019, 19 illustrated messages were designed for dissemination through social networks on falling ash, change of volcanic traffic light and recommendations for mountaineers. With support of the Advisory Scientific Committee (CCA) of the National Civil Protection System (SINAPROC) of the Popocatépetl volcano, technical notes on the change in the behavior of volcanic activity were issued. Two new cameras were installed and 10 seismic stations were modernized. On May 8, 2019, the course "Monitoring of Popocatépetl volcano and coordination actions between Mexican Red Cross and Civil Protection was taught. The automated volcanic signal recognition system and the EO Browser platform for Sentinel and Landsat 8TM satellite images, as well as the physicochemical analysis of springs close to the volcano, was implemented in the monitoring of volcano. ! 307 Volcanic hazards maps were delivered to the civil protection authorities of the states surrounding the Popocatépetl volcano. 167 members of the Mexican Red Cross on volcanic risk were trained. • From January to June 2019, 10 video clips were developed, on various phenomena, through which self-protection measures were disseminated through social networks of the official CNPC account. • Between February and June 2019, seven press conferences were held, 108 interviews with national and international media and training courses aimed at members of the SINAPROC and the population. • The prevention gathering "climate change and its relationship with the disappearance of glaciers in volcanoes from Mexicoo, was developed, with the assistance of approximately 80 people. • Practical maps of hazards were developed to support emergency care planning of the snow-covered volcanoes of Toluca, San Martín Tuxtla and the monogenic fields of Chichinautzin, Xalapa and Michoacán-Guanajuato. • Two working meetings were performed with the 32 state headlines of civil protection in the country, and joint actions were defined in order to strengthen local efforts and work on risk reduction. • In terms of inter-institutional cooperation, each of the federal entities was sent from March to June 2019, the results of the evaluation of the Governance and Public Policies Index in the Comprehensive Risk Management in Mexico, as well as the recommendations for Strengthen the quality of its public risk management policies. • On April 29 and 30, 2019, the meeting of the guiding entities of the national systems of prevention, mitigation and attention of disasters of the Mesoamerican region in Mexico City was carried out. An inductive workshop was carried out on the use of the Mesoamerican network for the integral management of risk and a tour of several Mexican monitoring and alerting centers as an exchange of knowledge. The CNPC actively participated in the national strategy for fuel theft 'Huachicol', through the systematization of information on affected priority municipalities and the elaboration of maps that have allowed the ducts to be georened, as well as the clandestine shots found. • On March 19, 2019, the Guide for Municipal Headlines for Civil Protection was sent to the municipalities affected by the theft of hydrocarbons to exhort them to install municipal civil protection committees. • 60 municipal civil protection councils were installed in 92 municipalities that were affected by fuel robbery. The cartoon was designed "against Huachicol there is no going back for its dissemination through social networks of the Government of the Republic. • The promotion of disaster risk reduction culture, encompassed the promotion of the "caravan of prevention carried out on May 20, 2019 in the municipality of Tlahuellpan, Hidalgo. This caravan provided information on civil protection and disaster prevention among the population of the seven surrounding municipalities, and featured 2 thousand attendees and 10,850 publications delivered. The Government of Mexico strengthened the culture of risks prevention through the issuance of alerts, and provided help and rehabilitation to the population and its surroundings in emergency situations and disasters. • From February to June 2019, the General Directorate of Civil Protection (DGPC), managed with Semar, Signa and the Federal Police, the participation of eight helicopters to contribute with fire care in the states of Chiapas, San Luis Potosí, Durango, Querétaro, Veracruz, Guanajuato and State of Mexico. • In June 2019, from the atypical granity that occurred in the Metropolitan area of ​​Guadalajara, a mission of evaluation and coordination (ECO) of the DGPC moved to Tlaquepaque, to collaborate with the evaluation of damage. • In this same period, the National Water Commission (CONAGUA) carried out extreme follow-ups of rain and temperature. • SEDENA from December 1, 2018 as of June 30, 2019, with the application of the Assistance Plan to the civilian population in cases of disaster (DN-III-E), participated with 21,018 elements at 610 events caused, benefiting 20,055 people. • The SEMAR activated the Marine Plan in its "Auxiliary Phase due to Affectionate by heavy rains in Reynosa, Tamaulipas; From June 25 to 28, 2019, where 1,781 people were helped. • December 2018 as of June 30, 2019, the CNPC issued 23 emergency declarations in 16 federal entities1 / and five disaster declarations in four federal entities, 2 / and four damage assessment committees were carried out, pending As of June 30, the delivery of results of the Tamaulipas Damage Committee, because the events happened two days before. 1 / veracruz (4), Chihuahua (2), Durango (2), Mexico, Michoacán, Puebla, San Luis Potosí, Zacatecas, Sinaloa, Sonora (2), Coahuila, Chiapas (2), Oaxaca, Guerrero, Jalisco, and Tamaulipas 2 / Veracruz (2), Chiapas, Jalisco and Tamaulipas. During the first half of 2019, 704,593 people affected in 210 municipalities from four federal entities were attended to. ! The road, educational, hydraulic, urban road and housing sectors were attended, in 48 municipalities of the four entities with a disaster declaration for an authorized total amount of 29.0 million pesos through immediate partial support. • The operation of 3,815 hydrometric and climatological stations measured the main variables of surface water at the national level, in order to have timely information for decision making at the occurrence of extreme phenomena. • In accordance with the request of the Municipal Water and Sanitation Board of Ciudad Juárez, the technical validation of the "Borders of Juarez" was held, small prey whose objective is to protect the flood population in rainy season. • In 21 States of the Republic, 112 preventive support operations were carried out to 85 municipalities. He highlighted the prevention and care of flooding with the cleaning and dezoolve of municipal drainages and channels of superficial currents; Transfer and recovery of water volumes in agricultural irrigation relief, as well as the distribution of 102.5 million liters of drinking water by estiage and in support of migrant caravans. These operations benefited about one million inhabitants. From January to June 2019, the authorized resources from the Trust of the Natural Disaster Fund (FONDE) amounted to 9,448.3 million pesos. With this, the works of reconstruction continued in the attention of the effects of natural disasters. The distribution by Federative Entity of Authorized Resources from the FONDE, as well as its destination, were the following: Authorized Federal Expenditure from Ramo 23 and Trust Federation by Federative Entity, January-June 2019 (Millions of Pesos) Concept Bouquet 23 Authorized Resources Trust 1 / Structure% Total 1,762.7 9,448.3 100.0 Baja California 55.7 0.6 Baja California Sur 222.5 2.4 Chiapas 829.6 8.8 Chihuahua 46.6 0.5 Mexico City 113.7 1.2 Coahuila 64.1 0.7 Colima 27.0 0.3 Durango 101.9 0.2 Guerrero 1,006.8 10.7 Jalisco 189.2 2.0 Michoacán 154.6 1.6 Morelos 1,045.4 11.1 Nayarit 405.5 4.3 Oaxaca 612.8 6.5 Puebla 214.5 2.3 Sinaloa 346.3 3.7 Sonora 110.5 1.2 Tabasco 85.0 0.9 Veracruz 1,433.6 15.2 Legal Advice 0.2 0.0 Fund for Emergency Attention 528.0 5.6 Catastrophic Insurance FONDE 2019-2020 1,087.5 11.5 Resources transferred1,762.7. Note: Partial sums may not coincide due to the rounding of the figures. 1 / Trust constituted in Banobras, S.N.C. In June 1999. Source: Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit. • For the reconstruction of the public infrastructure1 / 7,832.6 million pesos were allocated (82.9% of the total authorized resources), for the acquisition of help supplies in emergency situations and disaster by natural phenomena 528.0 million pesos, to cover the Catastrophic insurance premium of FONDON 1,087.5 million pesos and for legal advice 0.2 million pesos. X. Establish the National Guard in order to resolve the legal gaps in which the armed forces operate in public safety and face the challenge of insecurity and violence, the constitutional amendment that would allow the creation of the National Guard as well as Secondary laws. • With the Decree by which they are reforming, they add and derogate various provisions of the Political Constitution of the United Mexican States, on national guard, published in the DOF on March 26, 2019, the National Guard was established; Institution of public safety of a civil nature, disciplined, professional and deconcentrated administrative body of the SSPC, as the primary instrument of the federal executive in the prevention of crime, the preservation of public safety, the recovery of peace and combat to crime in crime in the whole country. • Likewise, the legislative power approved the respective secondary laws: the National Guard Law, the National Law of the Record of Detentensions; The National Law on the Use of Force and the reform to the General Law of System 1 / the Carretero sectors (19.5%), educational (19.9%), hydraulic (37.4%), naval (2.6%) and fishing and aquaculture stand out (1.7%). The sectors of culture, health, tourism, urban and housing participated with the remaining 1.8%. National public safety; These laws have already been published in the DOF.2 / • This new corporation was conformed in its initial phase with elements from the military police, the Naval Police and the Federal Police and its members are guaranteed respect for their rights acquired in the Corporations From which they come from, the graduation approval of labor terms, stability in office, social security and well-being. • On June 30, 2019, the first operational phase of the National Guard began, giving compliance with the presidential mandate to provide peace and security to the people of Mexico. Thus, I start the deployment of agents of the National Guard towards the areas with the highest criminal index in the country. ! As of July 2, accommodation construction was initiated for 81 companies of the National Guard, in the states of Guanajuato, Jalisco and Michoacán. August 13, 2019, there is a deployment of 58,602 elements in 150 regional coordination. Likewise, 14,606 young people are in the process of incorporation, of the 21,170 that is expected to be recruited during 2019. Of the total number of new personnel, 3,093 are women, a figure that represents 21.2%. This reinforces the commitment to inclusion and the equality. • Based on the establishment of the National Guard, the personnel have been trained, in the following subjects: 2 / The reference to these laws is at the point of information strengthen and maintain the internal security of the country and guarantee the Foreign defense of Mexico. Effective Training 12,590 Total 7,311 Initial Training Course for the National Guard (Veteran) 2,333 Initial Training Course for the National Guard (New Income) 200 Initial Course of Police Training for Instructors 234 Instructor-Evaluator 50 Diploma "Analysis and Development Of the police marketing 150 Training for filling the approved police report 201 initial course of police training 2,111 Police technical pilot Source: Security Secretariat and Citizen Protection. National Guard. Xi. National, state and regional coordination with the purpose of serving in each of the federal entities (and their respective regions), the problem of criminal advocacy, through the coordination of state and federal security authorities, 32 state coordinations were formed and 266 regional, in which they participate: • A technical secretary, the governor of the State, the Secretary of Government, the Commander of the Military Zone, the commander of the Naval Zone (where corresponds), the State Coordinator of the National Guard , the head of the Federal Police Station, the Secretary of State Security, the Prosecutor's Office of the State of the State, the representative of the General Prosecutor's Office and the Delegate of Programs. • In these coordination, the actions are reviewed and defined to meet the incidents of violence and crime; Additionally, actions are articulated in the three government orders, citizen organizations and civil society in general, in order to carry out studies of perception by region, both quantitative and qualitative that generate victimization maps, complaints and heat maps to preserve Peace and citizen security. Of the results obtained from December 1, 2018 as of June 30, 2019, the following stands out: with the implementation of the "National Public Safety Strategy 2018-2024", the Secretariat of Safety and Citizen Protection, Signa, the Semar and the Federal Police deployed personnel to attend 150 Regional Coordinations of 266, as a result of the planning of human, material and economic resources for the development of force. ! The Signa performed the assurance of 2,211,457 kilograms of marijuana, 93,515 kilograms of cocaine, 0.014 kilograms of heroin and 8,827 kilograms of methamphetamine; 1,563 vehicles, an aircraft, a boat, 352 long arms, 446 short arms, 41,123 cartridges, 1,786 chargers, 70 pomegranates, 4,117,853 Mexican pesos and 310,176 US dollars, two marijuana plants destroyed, two localized clandestine laboratories, 11 aggressions with weapons. Fire to military personnel, likewise, stopped 2,443 people. ! The Federal Police provided specialized technical assistance, in order to contribute to the prevention and investigation of crimes, in this context carried out 535 support services with a specialized team in follow-up of probable criminal acts, participated in 68 international meetings and carried out 195 Exchanges of intelligence information with authorities, institutions, agencies and international organizations. • From June 30 to August 13, 2019, the security actions carried out by the National Guard, report the following results: 549 criminal responsible persons and to 100 were made available to the competent authorities. They secured 51 vehicles linked with some type of crime, 86 weapons, 3,094 cartridges of different caliber and 20 properties. Almost 1.5 tons of marijuana, 140.4 kilograms of glass, 70 were confiscated. Kilograms of amphetamines, 15 kilograms of methamphetamines and 64 kilograms of cocaine. Two people victims of kidnapping were released and rescued 381 migrants. ! Three security actions were conducted in strategic facilities and Network of Petróleos Mexicanos; 21 Supports in peripheral security for catechies and five were awarded to fulfill arrest warrants. XII. Specific strategies New police model Actions were coordinated, among the three levels of government, from January to June 2019, four regional conferences of Public Safety Secretaries were carried out corresponding to the West Zones: Morelia, Michoacán ( March 22); Northwest-northeast: Hermosillo, Sonora (April 12); Southeast: Cancun, Quintana Roo (April 26) and center: Mexico City (June 12). From the conferences, the actions and strategies were implemented to combat crimes that most affect the population, promote police development and meet the matters of the National Public Safety Strategy 2018-2024. Under this scheme, the following actions were carried out: • National model of police and civic justice. In response to the mandate of the National Public Security Council, we work in the strengthening of state and municipal police, in reducing the criminal incidence, increasing the level of crime denunciation, improving citizen perception of security and confidence in the police , Achieve corruption in corporations, and effective civic justice with the functions of the National Guard under a subsidiary scheme. This model will allow:! Strengthen, professionalize, promote discipline and dignify municipal and state police institutions. ! Consolidate coordination mechanisms between the three orders of government and with the Public Ministry to achieve effective, sustainable, stable and permanent results. ! Reduce the criminal incidence in the country, particularly in crimes that most affect the population. ! Reduce the rate of painful homicides. ! Improve security perception. ! Increase the level of denunciation of crimes. ! Reduce impunity. ! Increase confidence in the police. ! Strengthen victim care programs. • The National Model for Trust Evaluation and Control was established, which is intended to permanently update the National Register of Public Safety Personnel, as well as to meet the obligations on the assessment of control and confidence and the single police certificate (CUP) In order to:! To provide greater coordination between public safety institutions and confidence assessment and control centers to strengthen income and recruitment and pre-selection calls; Give more weight to the psychological interview, differentiated by profile of position, schooling, background, among others; ! Integrate the minimum base of consultation in socioeconomic test and consultation of new bases and sources of information (public property and trade registration, vehicular public registration, Ministry of Finance and Public Credit / National Banking Commission and Value / Intelligence Unit Financial); ! Use the results of the medical-toxicological test for preventive purposes, increase from four to seven elements blood chemistry and homologate the assessment of tattoos, and! Reduce the use of the polygraph test. • The accreditation of 16 trusted evaluation and control centers was updated, further accredited a state center, which added to the accredited and in force add up 40 centers (36 state and four federal). • State progress with respect to the active staff is 99% of evaluated personnel, 89% of approved personnel and 76% of current approved personnel; While federal progress is maintained by 100% evaluated personnel, 92% approved personnel and 81% of current approved personnel. The procedures and regulatory provisions were reviewed for the acquisition, authorization of allocation or reallocation of weapons at cabinet meetings with the SEDENA. • The National Strategy for the Simplification and Modernization of the Approved Police Report (IPH) was implemented, as of January 2019, is worked on the simplification of the approved police report, as well as in the development of tools that facilitate its operation (guidelines, system of capture and filling guides). • It is so, in coordination with the municipalities of Benito Juárez, Quintana Roo; Chihuahua, Chihuahua; City Nezahualcóyotl, State of Mexico; Escobedo, Nuevo León; Hermosillo, Sonora; Los Cabos, Baja California Sur; Merida Yucatan; Puerto Vallarta, Jalisco; San Cristóbal de las Casas, Chiapas, and Santa María Huatulco, Oaxaca; The CNI works in the pilot implementation test of the "MOBILÓ IPH, which allows capture on tablets and electronic devices. • In follow-up to the National Public Safety Strategy 2018-2024, the commitment was reaffirmed so that the monthly perceptions of the police bodies have gradual and significant increases, focused on mitigating salary differences between States. In coordination with 252 municipalities, it was possible to promote through programs for improvement of working conditions, projects of restructuring and salary approval and program of stimuli, increase in salaries, extraordinary benefits for elements and their families, as well as favoring them through an economic stimulus , resulting in the direct benefit to 100 thousand elements of the operating personnel of public safety. Crime Prevention The Government of Mexico implemented actions aimed at reducing the levels of violence and prevention of the crime prevailing in the country, through the implementation of social programs that combat the causes generated by the crime, from an approach based on respect for rights. humans. Between December 2018 and June 2019, various actions were held: • The participation of interested social leaders were promoted to generate positive changes in their community, which allow the strengthening of social intelligence for the safety and co-responsibility of citizenship in construction and maintenance of safe environments; To achieve this purpose, the program "Social Training for Safety, was implemented, through which, workshops with" prevention of extortion and abduction were given, "responsible use of information and communication technologies and" prevention of trafficking in People, 150 social leaders, as well as 44 federal exfunces that will make replicas in their communities. • In order to reduce the rate of violent crimes in the most conflicting regions of the country, state, municipal authorities and civil society organizations were taught to build tools that can interrupt violence between the community, through mediation and restorative solutions to conflicts; For this, the model "Cure violence, as a citizen security project in priority regions was implemented. • Within the framework of the virtual training program in Social Prevention of Violence, the update of its contents and the recording of three capsules in the subject of reconstruction of the social fabric was performed. • In support of the national strategy for addiction prevention in favor of girls, children and adolescents, diagnoses were made with information of violence, high impact crimes, addictions, school dropout, early pregnancy, adolescents in the penitentiary system and feminicides in minor persons Old, in municipalities considered in the national security strategy 2018-2024. • Through the program "Reading days by Peaceó, spaces have been established to promote a culture of reading in different communities in the country to develop critical thinking, communication and interaction skills, as well as peaceful coexistence. Through the impulse to reading, there have been environments of harmonization, dialogue, understanding between people, gesturing disruption in processes of violence. This seeks to influence the peace construction processes. • With the aim of coordinating institutions to articulate, promote and apply prevention and care measures to eradicate the different forms of violence that affect girls, children and adolescents, on April 30, 2019, the Executive Secretariat of the National System of Protection of girls, children and adolescents (SIPINNA), where it was agreed that the Secretariat of Security and Citizen Protection will preside over the Commission to put an end to all forms of violence against girls, children and adolescents (complux). Special prevention of violence and crime through the National Antisecuestro Coordination (CONASE), direct communication was maintained with holders of units specialized against kidnapping (UECS) and meetings with authorities of institutions of the federal order for training issues, with prosecutors / Procuraduraías and members of the Federal Police Research Division. • 18 work table meetings and the 25 national meeting of the planning group and strategic analysis against kidnapping with holders of the units specialized against the sequestration of states are carried out. • Five regional meetings were performed with the units specialized against the kidnapping to verify compliance with agreements to the national meetings of the Planning Group and Strategic Analysis against the kidnapping of the National Conference on Procurement of Justice. • Participated in the 14th. and 24th. Plenary session of the Extortion and Successing Commission of the Security and Justice Bureau. • Coordination and link meetings were carried out between the authorities of the three orders of government and civil society. • The establishment of a combat strategy for the abduction crime was promoted, for which three lines of action were implemented: 1. Public Safety Chambers. By linking for exchange and updating places and location of geo-referenced cameras, their maintenance and updating of the software; as well as the integration of a national network of cameras. 2. Coordination of C4 and C5. Through the establishment of operating rules and homologation of procedures; the implementation of the strategy for the national integration of a single network of public safety chambers; the detection of technological and operation needs; The implementation of the Information Analysis and Monitoring Unit (UIMI), and the conformation of a national numbers basis Extorsive linked to diverse mobile applications. 3. Consolidation of the UIMI's. Seeks to preserve the relevant information; link the anti-kidnapping areas; Develop analysis and modus operandi of kidnapping events, and establish joint operations for the attention of this crime. Combat Strategy to the Illicit Hedrocarbons Market within the framework of this Strategy, the Federal Police, in the period from December 1, 2018 as of June 30, 2019, the Federal Police carried out the following actions: • 32 operatives were carried out Against the subtraction, alteration and use of hydrocarbons illegally, where the assurance of 51 people and the dismantling of five criminal bands was achieved. Likewise, the assurance of 1,160,425 liters of hydrocarbon was achieved: diesel 63,704; Gasoline Magna 69,787; Premium gasoline 17,234 and unidentified gasoline 1,009,700; as well as 320,983 liters of LP gas. • Regarding the crime of hydrocarbon theft and its derivatives, 31,141 revisions were carried out on the federal road network by transfer of hydrocarbons, thereby achieving the insurance of 1,597,066 liters of gasoline, 2,358,984 liters of diesel and 3,052,333 liters of other hydrocarbons (LP gas, petroleum, fuel oil, oil, among others.), as well as the arrest of 288 people by hydrocarbon theft. • Supply operative was implemented, by focusing specific actions to mitigate the theft and distribution of hydrocarbons. In this regard, the following results were obtained :! Participated in the execution of 6,268 zone recognition actions, 493 patrols and 58 inspection points on the main routes of supply and networking, in coordination with Mexican Petróleos, Secretariat of Defense National and the Marina Secretariat. These actions allowed:! Ensure 589 clandestine shots and 718,835 liters of hydrocarbons. Check 787 containers, 410 vehicles, 20 firearms, 17 chargers, 245 cartridges, 18,920 Mexican pesos. 882 people were made available to the authorities, there were 73 detainees, three people released and six people channeled to Civic Court, 1,065 safety support were given. Escort service was performed at 1,822 cargoes. Between December 2018 and June 2019, within the framework of the National Strategy for Fuel Theft 'Huachicol', members of the Navy of Mexico, permanently carried out operations in Guanajuato, State of Mexico and Mexico City , among other federal entities, with the following results: • 98 offenders were arrested for fuel robbery, said 1.1 million liters of gasoline, 161.7 thousand liters of diesel, 67.9 thousand liters of turbosin, 432 clandestine shots, 4.6 A thousand hydrocarbon containers and 229 vehicles. • Air support was provided with intelligence, surveillance and recognition for the development of operations against fuel robbery, with the use of five aircraft and two unmanned aerial vehicles, with a total of 618 flight hours. Strategy to combat autotransport steal and passengers on roads. In the road network and zones of federal jurisdiction, the Federal Police, from December 1, 2018 as of June 30, 2019, carried out the following operations: • 6,723 anti-assault operations at autotransport. • 15,392 operatives "Telurioó focused on providing attention to the theft of passenger vehicles. • 27,093 safety and protection operations to users of federal roads. • As a result of the implemented actions, it was achieved :! Assurance of 7,025 vehicles made available by some offense. 3,001 vehicles recovered with theft report. ! Detention of 157 people by assault on users of the road network and zones of federal jurisdiction. New criteria for distributing federal security resources as part of the coordination and collaboration strategy Two national meetings of executive secretaries were carried out, the first one on January 4, 2019, and the second April 11 of the same year; in which representatives of the 32 entities of the country and public security instances attended. The main objective of these meetings was to establish security policies and priorities, as well as measures to optimize budgetary resources on topics such as: new police model; National Guard; strengthening investment in equipment, infrastructure and technology; professionalization, certification and training of the police elements; Strengthening and / or creation of financial intelligence units in the federal entities, and police equipment and institutions, to mention the most outstanding. Likewise, the 10 priorities were detailed from which the strategic axes and programs for public safety were derived aligned with the National Public Safety Strategy and the Tools of Transparency, Accountability and Evaluation that the Executive Secretariat of the National System of National System was highlighted Public Safety (SESSP) launched to achieve better results in the 2019 resource agreement process. For fiscal year 2019, the budget allocated for the Fund for Public Safety Contributions (FASP), amounts to 9,371.7 million pesos, which is integrated with 7,202.7 million pesos of federal resources and 2,168.9 million pesos of state contribution. As of May 31, 2019, the federal entities received five federal resources of 4,685.89 million pesos, 390 million pesos of joint financing (federal contribution plus state participation) exercised. Regarding the subsidy for the strengthening of performance in public security (Fortaseg), allocated to municipalities and territorial demarcations of Mexico City and, where appropriate, to the Federal Entities that exercise the role directly or coordinated, it was allocated A financing of 3,930 million pesos to the programs with a national priority, the amount assigned. In accordance with the provisions of Article 7, fraction IV, paragraph B) of the 2019 Federation's expenditure budget, during March this year, the SESSP starts the ministration of Federal Subsidy resources ForestaG, so the month of June As regards the corresponding to the first minister, amounting to 2,751.5 million pesos, representing 70% of the agreed federal resource. The revision of the contribution fund for the strengthening of municipalities (Fortamun) was promoted before the corresponding bodies, so that the percentage that today contemplates for security tasks is increased by 50% the resource for the improvement of the police Municipal in the country. Towards a participatory democracy with the purpose of claiming the principle that the Government will obey and a society that commanding is obeyed, the Government of Mexico assumed the commitment to socialize political power and involve society in great national decisions through participatory democracy. This implies that democracy is not only a legal system and a mechanism to elect rulers, but as established by article 3rd. Constitutional, it is also a life system "founded in the constant economic, social and cultural improvement of the town. To realize this democratic aspiration, it is necessary to expand institutions forged with the representative democracy model and complement them with inclusive social participation processes. The growth of the communities has complicated and limited the direct participation of citizens in making decisions of public life. The crisis of political representation systems in the world created the need to renew democracy approaching society to involve it more effectively. A democracy that allows the free, voluntary and direct participation of citizens, without mediators. This modality is participatory democracy, which, while revaloring citizen participation in public decision-making, strengthens the form of government by legitimizing their acting. Likewise, democratic culture is strengthened with measures to guarantee the exercise of freedom of expression and which extensively promotes free consultation in social sectors, which consider inequalities inherent in the participation of women and historically discriminated and marginalized groups, with priority In indigenous and Afroomexican communities. Because in the National Development Plan 2019-2024 it is noted that it is not sufficient that society is informed and attentive, but should participate in decision-making, the following actions have been carried out: • 13 May 2019 was held the first forum #Demoscharlas, at the headquarters of the Secretariat of the Government with the theme "Nationalized Identity, in order to promote democratic culture in the population through the discussion of issues of national interest. In its first edition, the Forum registered the attendance of 300 participants from different universities in Mexico City. • Between April and May 2019 an analysis was carried out on the mechanisms of social participation in the country with allies of the academic sector, thus generating a strategy to create a national system of social participation in Mexico, which will articulate the work of the dependencies of The Federal Public Administration (APF) and a purpose will meet citizen demands and needs and promote a transformative vision of social participation and its inclusion in the cycle of public policy. It was intervened in the application and compliance of the Federal Law for the Promotion of Activities carried out by civil society organizations, seeking to open the Government to social participation and permanently listen to society, in order to contribute to reducing inherent inequalities to the participation of women and historically discriminated groups. • within the framework of the "Collaboration Mechanism between civil society organizations and the Federal Government, for the design and construction jointly of public policies that contribute to the governance and political development of the country, five meetings were carried out, in Those that was formed a work agenda and the projects of each of the committees that integrate it were reviewed. • To facilitate dialogue and linking with civil society organizations, as of June 30, 2019, 47 meetings were conducted with civil society organizations and 27 written requests were attended, with the purpose of responding and follow-up to consultations , requests and requests for advisory, training and exchange of experiences. • Needs of approximately 50 organizations that carry out actions of linkage and incidence with an APF dependence were identified through mechanisms or programs. In this regard, 20 in-depth interviews were conducted from which 14 were made with public servants and six with specialists to know the areas of opportunity and challenges they face for the best design of a public bonding policy. • On February 21, 2019, Mexico participated in the first ordinary meeting of "Civil Society Advisory Groups of the Inter-American Development Bank, in which the strategy of linking with civil society and possible forms of collaboration with the Government was presented Federal. Stresses the study on issues related to public consultations in national development projects in all sectors, with emphasis on those involving indigenous communities and originating peoples. • The National Institute of Women coordinated three meetings in which inter-institutional work tables were installed for the realization of consultation forums on the promotality program, which took place on days 7, 14 (17a. Ordinary session of the national system for the Equality between women and men) and May 28, 2019. • On March 25, 2019, the presentation of the National Observatory on Political Rights was participated in the Chamber of the Permanent Commission of the Senate of the Republic, organized by the Association another time AC, Project that is developed with the National Electoral Institute, as a mechanism from civil society for the analysis and systematization of human rights and indicators of women. December 2018 as of June 2019, actions were held to promote open dialogue with the population, promote collaboration with autonomous public bodies, as well as with other instances of the government, for the construction of a lasting democracy and a civic culture, in benefit of all and all Mexicans, underlining the following: • A new narrative for the construction of citizenship and social participation, with the aim of stimulating a way of life and a governance system that promotes inclusive relations between individuals, organizations, Communities and the State. • On June 24 and 25, 2019, participation forums called "Moral Constitution. Reflections for a better coexistence for the elaboration of moral constitution, in order to strengthen national, cultural and spiritual values. In these participated representatives of various social groups, academia, artistic and religious scope; Students, activists, young people, women and representatives of indigenous communities, in a space of reflection, exchange of ideas, dialogue and debate. Different dependencies and entities signed cooperation agreements for democratic development, construction of citizenship and social participation. Between December 2018 and June 2019, the following stand out: • With the Electoral Institute of Mexico City, to develop and disseminate a democratic and participatory culture, a civic education and its values, which boost the construction of citizenship from a perspective of gender and respect for human rights. • With the National Institute of Indigenous Languages, for the promotion of Lingch Rights of Peoples and indigenous communities, which allows to guarantee the full exercise of their human rights and equality during the implementation of participatory exercises and, consequently, in the democratic development of the country. • With the National Institute of Indigenous Peoples, an agreement was established to strengthen cultural identity, personal, social and inclusive participation that guarantees the full exercise of rights, and its development in the democratic life of the country. • With the National Institute of Anthropology and History, to promote the cultural, archaeological and historical heritage of Mexico, from an inclusive, intercultural and participatory vision in which democracy is strengthened and citizenship is built from the cultural sphere. • With the Energy Secretariat to guarantee the cash enjoyment of the human rights of indigenous peoples and other historically marginalized groups, through strategies that strengthen social inclusion, democratic culture, citizen participation, social cohesion, peace culture and legality. The Government of Mexico encourages, coordinates, follows up and proposes improvements to participatory exercises that include the population in making decisions of the three government orders. This is the space where society participates and is involved in the relevant decisions of those who represent it in the public function, where the separation between the people and the government is erased, which will have the obligation to listen, deliberate and take into account the Village view. These exercises are based on inter-institutional collaboration through an ad hoc technical committee and a guarantor of the commitments agreed by the people. Likewise, a process of monitoring and improvement is established to verify that agreements between governments and people are met, in order to collect best practices to promote the continuous improvement of participatory processes. In this sense, December 2018 to August 2019, actions were developed, among which are the following: • From February 15 to 21, 2019, it collaborated in the participatory exercise on the operation of the Integral Project Morelos and the Huexca thermoelectric plant, Morelos, where 34 informative sessions were performed in 36 municipalities of Morelos, 15 municipalities of Puebla and nine Tlaxcala municipalities, with the presence of technical specialists. Prior to participatory exercise, five informative brigades were held in 18 municipalities of the State of Morelos. Likewise, the state authorities were accompanied by 10 informative assemblies with state representativeness due to their regionalization attended by approximately four thousand citizens. On February 23 and 24, 2019, the consultation was held in which 5,5715 people who voted in the 147 tables installed with the same number of public servants participated and also counted on the participation of 294 volunteers. In addition, three inter-institutional follow-up meetings were carried out. Numeraria Integral Project MorelumsConceptonMomparticipants Voter 55,715 Days of Participatory Exercise 2 Federal Entities Consulted 3 Municipalities Consulted 60 Voting Tables Installated 147 Nation Servers Participants in Voting Tables 147 Volunteers Participants in Voting Tables 294 Informative Sessions 34 Interinstitutional Meetings Informative 5 Source: Secretariat of the Government. • Free consultation, previous and informed for the Isthmus Development Program of Tehuantepec: In coordination with the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit and the National Institute of Indigenous Peoples (INPI), seven regional assemblies related to the transificant corridor, which are They were held on May 30 and 31, 2019. • In addition, seven meetings of the Monitoring and Verification Committee were held, held on May 18 and 19, 2019, in Jaltepec de Candayoc, Santa María Chimalapa, Santiago Laollaga , San Pedro Huamelula and Salina Cruz, in the state of Oaxaca; UxPanapa and Oteapan, in the State of Veracruz. Finally, four meetings of the Inter-institutional Technical Committee were performed. Numerary Isthmus Development Program of Tehuantepec Concept Numbers Regional 7 Monitoring and Verification Commissions 7 Sessions of the Technical Committee 4 Participating Entities 2 Municipalities 79 Oaxaca 46 Veracruz 33 Municipalities and / or Communities 16 Total agreements 92 Agreements in Assembly 65 Agreements in Commission 27 Total petitions 1,021 Initial requests (Assemblies) 748 Subsequent requests (7 Commissions) 226 Subsequent requests (April 13 Santiago Laollaga) 24 Requests Out of Protocol 23 Total of Participations 4,942 Participants (Assembly) 4,242 Representatives Communities 595 Federal and State officials 105 Source: Secretariat of the Government. • Free consultation, previous and informed for expansion and enabling as "civil / military mixed airport with international category at the Number 1 Military Base of Saint Luciaó (Indigenous Community of San Miguel Xaltocan, Nextlalpan, State of Mexico): Participation was promoted Of the awareness and consultation work at the Alewed Communities to the Saint Lucia Military Area Base in collaboration with the Secretariat of National Defense, the Secretariat of Agricultural, Territorial and Urban Development and the IPI. On March 10, 2019, the Community General Assembly (indigenous consultation) was carried out; On March 27, 2019, the Monitoring and Verification Committee of the Agreements was installed, and on April 10 and May 27, 2019, two of its sessions. In the framework of this consultation, four thematic work tables (water, infrastructure, land and development) were installed, which until June 30, 2019, generating 39 requests and reached 40 general agreements. In this exercise of citizen participation, it was attended by 1,015 people and 79 representatives of the federal government. Project "Civilian Mixed Airport / Military Military Base Number 1 of Saint LuciaóconcepttonMeroStamples 1 Sessions of Monitoring and Verification Commission 2 Tables of Working Thematic 4 Sessions of Theme Working Tables 9 Assistants of the Community 1,015 Representatives of the Federal Government 79 Petitions 39 General Agreements 40 Source: Secretariat of the Government. • Free consultation, previous and informed for constitutional and legal reform on rights of Indigenous Peoples and Afroomexican: the consultation process was coordinated together with the INPIs to prepare the initiatives of constitutional and legal reform on indigenous rights. This was an exercise of unprecedented participatory democracy, attending the stipulated in international treaties, and in order to listen to all the ideas, voices and opinions of indigenous peoples and Afroomexican. Therefore, from June 21 to August 4, 2019, 53 regional consultation forums for indigenous and Afroomexican communities were developed in Mexican territory, as well as a forum in the city of Los Angeles, California, United States of America, for The migrant indigenous population located in that country. Finally, from August 6 to 9, 2019, the National Forum was held in Mexico City, which the elected representatives of each regional forum were attended for the purpose of exposing the conclusions and proposing the general pronouncement of this consultation. Numerary Consultation on Indigenous Peoples' Rights and AfromexicanoConcept Regional Stimulus 53 Indigenous Peoples Consulted 68 Federal Entities 28 Headquarters 1 Participants 52 Federal Entities Oaxaca. 10 Chiapas. 5 Puebla, Guerrero and Veracruz. 4 each. Michoacán, Baja California, Hidalgo and Sonora. 2 each. Chihuahua, Baja California Sur, Campeche, Mexico City, Coahuila / Nuevo León, Colima, Durango, State of Mexico, Guanajuato, Jalisco, Morelos, Nayarit, Querétaro, Quintana Roo, San Luis Potosí, Sinaloa, Tabasco and Yucatán. One by entity. Source: Secretariat of the Government. • In energy matters, it has been participated in three community working meetings, attended by 1,235 people, as part of the pre-consultation agreements phase to the Zapoteca Indigenous Community of Union Hidalgo (Ranchú Gunaa), on construction and Operation of the "Wind Central Gunaa Sicarú, Oaxaca as part of the provisions of Article 119 of the Law of the Electrical Industry. This points out that in order to take into account the interests and rights of indigenous communities and peoples in which projects of the electricity industry develop, the Secretariat of Energy must carry out the necessary consultation procedures and any other activity for its Safeguard, in coordination with the Secretariat of the Government and the corresponding dependencies. • Consultation on the construction and operation of the "Ticul A and Ticul Bó Solar Park: three sessions of the Advisory Assembly, with the participation of 500 people, in the town of San José Tipceh Muna, Yucatán, on 28 and 29 April 2019 and May 6, 2019, which was coordinated in the previous phase of consultation in the Community of Plan Chac Municipality of Sacalum, Yucatán. Revocation of Mandate1 / The "Initiative that reforms various provisions of the Political Constitution of the United Mexican States (CPEM) was presented, in terms of revocation of mandate, for this purpose Articles 35, 36, 73, 99 and 108 are modified. The Political Constitution of the United Mexican States, which aims to establish the procedure for the revocation of mandate of the President of the Republic. Between the proposed, highlights: 1) Determine that citizen's right will be voting in the revocation processes of mandate 1 / This information was obtained from the legislative information system.HTTP: //sil.gobernacion.gob.mx/Libreria/pp_contenidoasuntos. php? Sid = & key = 3741984). that will be held on the same day of the Electoral Day in which only federal deputies are chosen; 2) Indicate that the revocation process will be requested from any of the Chambers of the Honorable Congress of the Union, during the first ordinary period of the second year of the corresponding legislature; 3) Stipulate that the revocation of mandate will be convened by H. Congress of the Union at the request of: i) The President of the Republic; ii) the equivalent of 33% of the members of any of the Chambers of H. Congress of the Union; and, iii) citizens enrolled in the nominal voter list, in an equivalent number at least 33% of the valid votes issued in the election in which the President of the Republic had obtained the triumph of him; 4) indicate that the revocation will be determined by absolute majority of votes in favor, as long as at least 40% of the voters registered in the nominal list, concur. 5) Detail the terms and instances in which the result can be challenged; and, 6) empower: a) H. Congress of the Union to legislate in the field; and, b) to the Superior Room of the Electoral Tribunal of the Judicial Power of the Federation to carry out the final computation of the mandate revocation process of the President of the United Mexican States. On March 14, 2019, he was approved by the Chamber of Deputies and Turnada to the Review Chamber, said Minute was received at the Senate of the Republic on March 19, it is currently pending commissions. Popular Consultation The Government of Mexico works to promote the construction of citizens, for the exercise and requirement of their rights and compliance with its obligations, as well as to encourage its participation in democratic governance. The amendment of Article 35 of the CPEUM refers to redesigning the constitutional bases related to the popular consultation with the purpose of making it an affordable mechanism to citizens, and that it is a useful tool for participation in public policies. According to the portal of the Legislative Information System, the Minute of the Decree Draft amending Article 35 of the Constitution, in terms of popular consultation, approved by the Chamber of Deputies on March 14, 2019, was sent To the Senate of the Republic on 19 of the same month and year, and is pending in commissions. Send by obeying listening and dialogue, the new way of rule. For this, the Government of Mexico has implemented new dynamics in the resolution of conflicts that strengthen democratic governance, avoid the use of force and promote peaceful concertation with social actors and organizations, it is the logic of exercising power listening and incorporating the Population opinions. The dependencies and entities that make up the APF attend and follow up on the demands of the popular, business and civil society sectors, among others, in order to prevent their demands from derived in violent movements. Among the specific actions, the instances of the Executive Power prioritize the negotiation and approach with social groups through concertation tables, in addition to principal protection protocols that go to the headquarters of federal dependencies, in order to maintain an environment of peace, while respecting his human right to manifest himself. In this new dynamics of attention to social organizations and private citizens by the federal government, between December 2018 and June 2019, the following arrangements have been registered: • Attention by the institutional way to 1,778 requests that were directed to the National Palace and / or the Secretary of the Government, the demands were channeled to various agencies and entities of the APF, when awareness and / or audiences and situations were generated More criticism that caused mobilizations and protests were relaxed through dialogue and concertation. • The Citizen Care Module that is operating from December 3, 2018 in the National Palace provides permanent attention to the population with an average of 450 people daily. • With the above actions, federal administrative instances comply with their mission relative to citizens with kindness in public offices and anywhere. • Peaceful agreement with actors and various social organizations and civil society, is relevant to establish effective coordination between the different instances and government orders, in order to listen and address their demands, which allows generating the necessary conditions to promote The construction of agreements. Therefore, the governance secretariat focuses on establishing mechanisms that encourage dialogue with parties in conflict situations. • In that regard, from December 1, 2018 to July 31, 2019, the following activities were held :! Care Tables. 121 attention tables were installed that derived at 293 meetings to meet the demands of various social organizations and civil society, in an environment of respect, open and transparent dialogue. ! In addition, meetings were completed with 30 associations, including: Greenpeace, United Nations Development Program, Ceiling, Article 19, Doctors Without Borders, Centro Mario Molina, Mexican Institute for Competitiveness AC, Mexico Evalua, Oxfam, National Observatory Citizen and NosotRXS, the above to identify the specific diagnoses and programs. ! Training for social organizations. On March 11, 2019, the event "Expo Your Government, which aimed to advise and present to social organizations, the rules of operation of programs to which they can apply and thus obtain support from the Government were performed. !Right of petition. The right of request enshrined in Article 8 of the CPEUM, gives all Mexicans the right to request attention from their demands or needs by public officials. Foreign Policy: Recovery of Principles Mexico aspires to consolidate the narrowest, constructive and respectful relationship with all the peoples and governments of the world. The international action of our country is finished in international law and peace values, mutual understanding and shared prosperity, and recovers as a supreme guide the principles of foreign policy settled in fraction X of Article 89 constitutional. The active presence of the country in the world will be invariably oriented to strengthen the development and well-being of Mexicans and Mexicans, and to support internal economic growth. Mexican diplomacy will transmit to the world the profound transformation that is underway in Mexico and its results. By geographical neighborhood, cultural identity and shared aspirations, Latin America and the Caribbean is a priority region for Mexico. In particular, the new foreign policy is committed to contribute to social development and to abate poverty and insecurity in Central America, primary causes of forced migration. The great regional productive projects that drives the government will operate as southern development curtains of the territory and generate the economic prosperity needed in the expulsor areas of migrants. • Our country will also promote the integration mechanisms that promote growth, investment and employment in the Latin American region, such as the Pacific Alliance. • With the countries of North America we maintain the most significant commercial and investment exchange, achieved through a decades effort in the construction of a vast institutional scaffolding and the growing link between our populations. With the United States of America (USA), especially, a relationship based on cooperation, respect and friendship is maintained, qualities that exceed any adverse juncture. • With the European Union and with other EXTRACOMMUNITARIES Mexico maintains positive relationships, with which major exchanges and cooperation for development have been achieved. Likewise, it realizes the efforts dedicated to strengthening the collaboration with countries and mechanisms of Pacific Asia, while exposing the important agreements reached with the members of the twenty (G20) group and the leadership of our country in the Mikta space. This Government recognizes that the complexity of the current international context demands a collective action concerted in favor of certainty, legality and co-responsibility. For this reason, it deploys an active presence in all agencies of the United Nations system and other agencies, to promote inclusive and open societies, advance in achieving the objectives of Agenda 2030 and act constructively in matters such as the defense of human rights , combating climate change and impetus to gender equality. As one of the normative principles that guide foreign policy, international cooperation for development has been the key piece of both the bilateral relations of Mexico and the incidence of our country in South-South and triangular cooperation mechanisms. Mexico promotes cooperation projects that contribute to the sustainable development of the Central American, Caribbean and General Latin American region, in collaboration with our partners around the world. Mexico is a nation based on more than one territory and therefore, the actions of protection, support and accompaniment of Mexicans abroad have the highest priority. The Mexican consular network, the largest that a country has in another, evolves to become a true network of advocacy of our Communities abroad. To the defense of their human rights we add the promotion of greater opportunities and the care of their health, education and heritage. Bilateral relations on the occasion of the Federal Executive Power Transmission Ceremony (Mexico City, December 1, 2018), they went to our country invited from all over the world, among which were headers of state and government, owners of organisms International, Ministers of Foreign Affairs, members of the diplomatic corps accredited in our country and various special guests. Mexico maintains a respectful, fluent and constant dialogue with the US government. The Government of Mexico has insisted with our American interlocutors that the migratory phenomenon is a shared issue, by transit and destination, which will be resolved by attending the root of the problem with development. In this regard, the Secretary of Foreign Affairs traveled to that country on four occasions to expand bilateral dialogue: on December 2, 2018; from May 7 to 8, 2019; On May 24, 2019 and from May 31 to June 10, 2019. • On April 1, 2019, the President of the Republic received a delegation from American legislators, in order to express the will of the Government of Mexico for Improve living conditions both from Mexicans and Central American through cooperation for development. • Likewise, on July 19 it received another delegation from legislators from that country and dialogue with them on the importance of the ratification of the Mexico Treaty, the United States and Canada (T-MEC). • For the part of it, the Secretary of Foreign Affairs deepened in dialogue with subnational actors to make clear the intention of Mexico to strengthen commercial ties. To that end, he met with Governor of Nebraska, John Peter Ricketts, on February 15, 2019. Likewise, the first summit of Mayors of North America, from 6 to June 8, 2019 in Los Cabos, Baja California Sur. Border. With a view to promoting the competitiveness and prosperity of North America, Mexico has fostered bilateral coordination with US in order to modernize the border area. On December 25, 2018, the expansion of the Mexican section of Puerto Palomas-Columbus (Chihuahua-New Mexico) and the modernization of the Mexican section of Puerto Reynosa-Pharr (Tamaulipas-Texas) was concluded. With these works, bilateral trade between both countries, more than 80% of which is estimated flow through ports at our common border. • With these works, bilateral trade between both countries, more than 80% of which is estimated flow through ports at our common border. • At the request of the Government of Mexico, the X Technical Meeting of the Bilateral Executive Committee for the Administration of the Border was ahead of May 22 and 23, 2019. During this meeting, the US government was requested to reintegrate their posts in border ports to the officers of the Customs Office and Border Protection that were reallocated to support for border patrol. This to mitigate the increase in waiting times that caused the aforementioned decision of the US Government. • In this framework, in terms of security, it was discidentized on how to strengthen bilateral cooperation in order to reduce border violence, as well as work together to combat people trafficking, cash contraband and arms trafficking. • Likewise, during the meeting of the Subcommittee of Safe Flows, the proposals that will contain the 2019 Action Plan were reviewed, in which it is They include initiatives in areas such as reduction of waiting times, reliable traveler, trade facilitation, unified load processing and relationship with stakeholders. • In terms of environmental cooperation in the border region, December 2018 as of 2019, four environmental infrastructure projects were certified for funding, through the Bank of America. Three of them will be developed in Mexico (two for the treatment of wastewater in Tijuana, Baja California, and Diaz Ordaz, Tamaulipas, and one to strengthen the electric collective transport system in the Metropolitan area of ​​Monterrey, Nuevo León) with an investment of 129.5 million dollars. It is estimated that these projects will benefit more than 400 thousand inhabitants of the northern border of Mexico. • The Ministry of Foreign Affairs (SRE) supported the strategy for the elimination of tariffs imposed by USA imported steel and aluminum imports from Mexico. In a coordinated manner with the Economy Secretariat, various actions of persuasion implemented by the Embassy and consulates of Mexico, as well as by various authorities of the SRE, aimed at political and economic actors in that country, contributed to the fact that these tariffs rise on 17 May 2019. • The Chancellor of Mexico traveled to Washington, DC, from May 31 to June 7, 2019, in order to deploy the diplomatic strategy that avoided the taxation of tariffs from Mexico, linked to the transit of migrants per national territory. Both countries agreed to strengthen bilateral cooperation to improve security at its common border and promote concerted actions in favor of development in Central America, which serves the causes of forced migration, with the support of the governments of the region and international organizations. • Since December 2018, 16 meetings have been carried out with US education institutions and organizations, within the framework of the Bilateral Forum on Higher Education, Innovation and Research. In turn, in May 2019, the Binational Forum was performed Mexico-Canada: Science, Technology and Development. • Trade and investment was promoted through participation in the trade missions of the State of Indiana, of the San Diego Regional Chamber of Commerce, and the Hispanic Chamber of Commerce of Austin. The Government of the Republic strengthened the bilateral relationship with Canada, which highlight the following actions: • The Secretary of Foreign Affairs maintained the dialogue with the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Chrystia Freeland, through a bilateral meeting within the framework of the summit of the G20 (June 28, 2019) and three telephone calls (January 29, February 25 and June 11, 2019). Both reiterated Mexico and Canada's commitment to continue being strategic partners and allies on bilateral and multilateral issues. Sample is the cooperation in the celebration of the 75th anniversary of diplomatic relations and the ratification of T-MEC, among others. • Likewise, on May 14, 2019, the Government of Mexico held an intermediate meeting of a high-level Mexico-Canada dialogue on mobility of people. With this, both countries perform actions to promote and facilitate the mobility of people (tourists, students and workers), as well as to prevent and inform the Mexican population about the legal roads to travel to Canada. The need was also addressed the need to ensure regional and global cooperation in this area. • SRE instrumented a T-MEC promotion strategy through meetings with legislators, organization of forums and conferences, as well as meetings with key actors, among other actions. In order to maintain an open collaboration with North America, and promote a vision of shared responsibility in security matters, such as combat to drug trafficking, officials of Mexico, USA and Canada made a visit to the port of Miami, Florida, 24 As of April 27, 2019. During this visit, participants knew and exchanged information about the fight against drugs, strengthening trilateral cooperation. This visit is part of the cooperative activities agreed upon in the dialogue of North America on drug policy. Personnel of the Ministry of National Defense (SEDENA) participated in three local coordination meetings with the Guatemala and Belize armed forces in order to exchange information about the situation of the border area and plan the implementation of patrols in the respective territories of each country. • The Northern Command holder of the US visited the facilities of the Marina Secretariat (SEMAR) in our country on March 5 and 6, 2019. He was received by the secretaries of the Sedena and Semar. Coordination and cooperation with the United States Armed Forces were encouraged on security and defense issues. • In order to strengthen the bilateral strategic relationship with Canada, on May 16, 2019, the tenth edition of the Consulting Mechanism on New and Traditional Safety Subjects Mexico-Canada was carried out in Ottawa, Canada. • This mechanism allows various safety agencies to address priority issues such as the criminal justice system, the penitentiary system, arms trafficking, policies on drug use, peace operations of the United Nations Organization (UN), Border security, trafficking in persons, migratory flows, matters susceptible to collaboration with third countries and the trends of criminal phenomena. In the context of development cooperation in the region, staff of the SEDENA participated in the "second annual humanitarian aid workshop and disaster response, from December 10 to 14, 2018, at the Americas Conference Center of the EUA Southern Command in Miami, Florida, to learn about the organization and operation of various regional agencies that carry out humanitarian assistance activities in the Northern Hemisphere. Between December 2018 and June 2019, the Northern Command of US supported the development of projects on disaster reduction, health, education and institutional strengthening issues, in addition to the gender issue transversally. All this, under the Agreement between the Government of the United Mexican States and the Government of the United States of America on cooperation in the Emergency Administration in cases of natural disasters and accidents, signed in 2008. On April 1, 2019 held the XI Edition of the US-Mexico CEO Dialogue, in which the Secretary of Economy shared with more than 60 senior executives of Mexico and USA his perspective on bilateral trade and T-MEC, while reiterating the importance of continuing to work Closely with the private sector to promote a common agenda. It was also agreed with the US Secretary of Commerce to prepare a cooperation agenda to strengthen the economic relationship between both countries. Mexico Hosted the XXVI Meeting of the Council of the Commission for Environmental Cooperation of North America in June 2019, which approved the 2019-2020 work program. This includes topics such as protected natural areas, marine garbage, food waste, preparation and resilience against extreme climate events, protection to pollinators and linkage with indigenous communities, including traditional ecological knowledge. In the XXIV Mexico-US-Canada Trilateral Committee, held in Victoria, Canada, in April 2019, it was agreed to promote actions for the conservation of migratory birds, pastures, islands and shared ecosystems. On December 1, 2018, the presidents of Honduras, Guatemala and Mexico, as well as the Vice President of the Republic of El Salvador, signed a political statement by which they instructed their chancellements to, with the support of the Economic Commission for America Latina and the Caribbean (ECLAC), design the Integral Development Plan (PDI), and promote its future implementation. • This plan was presented to President Andrés Manuel López Obrador on May 20, 2019, by Executive Secretary of ECLAC, Alicia Bárcena, and will focus on four axes of work: 1) Economic development; 2) Social Welfare; 3) Environmental Sustainability; and 4) Integral management of the migratory cycle. On that occasion, the Secretary of Foreign Affairs noted that this document will serve to define specific actions that generate greater development in the region. • As of June 2019, the initiative received support from the USA, Spain, Germany, Bolivia, Chile and Uruguay, as well as the European Union, UN, the Organization of American States (OAS) and the General Ibero-American Secretariat. In order to strengthen diplomatic relations with the countries of the Latin American region, Mexico was represented at the level of Secretary of State in the ceremonies of taking possession of the President of the Federal Republic of Brazil, Jair Bolsonaro, on January 1, 2019 ; and the President of El Salvador, Nayib Bukele, on June 1, 2019. In both cases, the interest of strengthening political, economic and cooperative relations was endorsed. • Mexico attended the transfer ceremony of the Pro Tempore Presidency of the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States (CELAC), held in San Salvador, Republic of El Salvador, on January 14, 2019, in which the Plurinational State of Bolivia assumed The presidency of the mechanism. Mexico supported the process of reflection on CELAC and the strengthening of this mechanism, which brings together the 33 countries of the region. • On January 15, 2019, the Secretary of Foreign Affairs received his counterpart from Bolivia; Both reviewed the most relevant issues of the bilateral relationship, particularly the progress of negotiations around Visa suppression for Bolivians traveling to Mexico as tourists. • On January 31, 2019, the Chancellor met with his counterparts from El Salvador, Honduras and Guatemala, as well as with ECLAC officials, to review the progress developed by the technical teams for the PDI; They dialogue on the documents presented and defined the dates to start the actions. • On February 6, 2019, in Montevideo, Uruguay, Mexican Chancellor met with the President of the Eastern Republic of Uruguay to address the dialogue initiative submitted by both nations called "Montevideo Mechanism on Venezuela's situation, in the Framework of the International Conference of Montevideo. In this initiative, the Nations of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) have an outstanding role. The mechanism notes that the only way to address the complex situation that prevails in Venezuela is dialogue and negotiation, from a perspective of respect for international law and human rights. • On February 7, 2019, also in Montevideo, the Mexican Chancellor participated as an observer at a meeting of the International Contact Group, composed of the European Union, Spain, Italy, Portugal, Sweden, Germany, France, Netherlands, United Kingdom, Bolivia, Costa Rica and Ecuador. At the end of the debate, the group adopted a document that establishes, among other things, the Need to celebrate elections in Venezuela. Mexico did not subscribe the document, in attachment to its constitutional principles of foreign policy. • The same February 7, the Secretary of Foreign Affairs met with the Eastern Republic of the Uruguay, José Mujica Cordano, to talk about the importance of international mediation to solve the situation in Venezuela. • On February 26, 2019, the Mexican Chancellor and the then Minister of Foreign Affairs of Chile, Roberto Ampuero, held a meeting in Mexico City to review the bilateral agenda, in which he addressed topics such as the joint cooperation fund, The Cooperation and Political Affairs Commissions of the Council of the Strategic Association Agreement and the Mexico-Chile Free Trade Agreement. • On March 12, 2019, the President of the Republic received the visit of the President-elect of the Republic of El Salvador, Nayib Bukele Ortez, congratulated him for having obtained electoral victory and expressed the will to continue narrowing friendship relations between both countries. They reaffirmed the intention to deepen bilateral collaboration on priority issues such as economic and social development in northern Central America and southern Mexico, through the PDI, migratory management and trade promotion. • On April 12, 2019, the VII meeting of the Permanent Information Mechanism and Political Consultations Meeting was found in Mexico City, in order to impulse political, economic and cooperative links. In turn, on May 2, the XIII meeting of the Working Group on Migratory and Consular Affairs between both countries was held in Havana, which addressed lines of action to improve attention to migrant people before the current migratory context in the region. • In the interest in strengthening bilateral political dialogue and cooperation with the Republic of Guatemala, on April 25, 2019, the Secretary of Foreign Affairs and his homolog of that country, recognized the importance of maintaining greater coordination and dialogue to attend to The migratory phenomenon. On the occasion, Mexico's interest was landed for presenting the POI as an axis of the bilateral relationship and a new regional dialogue platform. • On May 9, 2019, the Secretary of Foreign Affairs and the Chancellor of Colombia celebrated in Mexico City the II Meeting of the Strategic Relationship Mexico-Colombia to comply with the provisions of the Strategic Association Agreement and Generate A more dynamic bilateral agenda. A road map was set based on the vision of governments in turn. • On May 14, 2019, the Foreign Minister of Cuba, made a work visit to Mexico, dialogue with the Mexican Chancellor on Tourism, Investment and Causes between Mexico and Cuba in the Global Agenda. • On May 28, 2019, within the framework of the Ministerial Conference on Latin America and the Caribbean, held in Berlin, Germany, the Secretary of Foreign Affairs, held a meeting with the Vice President and Chancellor of Panama, who thanked the constant support That Mexico grants to your country. Both officials addressed the migratory theme, particularly the impact that the flow of migrants in the Central America has in the region. • In the same event, the Mexican Chancellor held a meeting with the Minister of Foreign Affairs and cult of the Argentine Republic, Jorge Faurie. In this meeting, officials dealt with themes of the bilateral and regional agenda, while the support of Mexico was reiterated so that Argentina enters the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). • On June 21, 2019, the president of Mexico received in Tapachula, Chiapas to his counterpart of the Republic of El Salvador, Nayib Bukele, with whom he launched the program sembrando life. This program is the first component that It materializes the objective of the IAPP to serve the migratory phenomenon and to alleviate the situation of poverty in the region. ! The program will support the Republic of El Salvador with 50 thousand hectares of fruit trees and timber and will create 20 thousand jobs in that country. The leaders signed a letter of intent on bilateral cooperation to ensure the implementation of this program. • On June 19, 2019, the IX meeting of the Permanent Mexican-Jamaica Binational Commission was held, by videoconference, in which both countries evaluated the status of their political, economic and cooperative relations. In the first half of 2019, the President of the Republic received the visit of the following European personalities: • The president of the Government of Spain, Pedro Sánchez, on January 30 and 31, 2019. The leaders adopted a statement on the development plan Integral for Central America, agreeing to work on the definition of the programs and projects that will configure it. The participation of the Spanish Agency for International Cooperation for Development (AECID) was agreed upon. 1 / • Likewise, the leaders issued a joint declaration. In it, they agreed to undertake efforts to globally project their cultures and language, highlighting their contributions to the development, plurality and dynamism of many societies. As a first step, they will coordinate cultural and educational actions 1 / the joint declaration is available at: https://www.gob.mx/sre/prensa/declaracion-conjunta-del-unidos-mexicanos- Y-Del-President-del-Government-from-Kingdom-of-Espana-over-the-plan-de-development-integral-para-Central America? idiom = is through a new Cervantes Institute in Los Angeles, California, EUA.2 / • Princess Astrid from Belgium visited our country, from February 15 to 22, 2019, at the forefront of a commercial mission made up of about 300 personalities, including representatives of 130 Belgian companies, federal and regional ministers, as well as academic institutions. Both dialogue on the Integral Development Plan for Central America and highlighted the importance of the Modernization Process of the Global Agreement between Mexico and the European Union. • The Prime Minister of Luxembourg, Xavier Bettel, from April 7 to 9, 2019. Both leaders endorsed their support for the Modernization Process of the European Union Global Agreement and agreed to analyze opportunities to expand cooperation, especially in Central America in the Frame of the Integral Development Plan. Also, they agreed to deepen commercial and investment exchanges, which showed the confidence of our partners in the Mexican economy. Prime Minister Bettel was accompanied by a financial delegation with the aim of expanding business opportunities for the financial sectors of both countries, considering that Luxembourg is an important center in the Eurozone. • On May 29, 2019, in the company of Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka, Executive Director of UN Women, the president of Mexico launched the Spotlight Initiative that seeks to strengthen, complement and support existing mechanisms, programs and initiatives at the federal, state level and Municipal, designed to eradicate feminicide and other forms of violence against women and girls in Mexico. The European Union 2 / This commitment can be consulted at: https://www.gob.mx/sre/prensa/mexico-y-espane-unidos-por-la-historia-comprometidos-con-el-cambio It allocated 55 million euros for its implementation in Latin America, of which approximately seven million will be reversed in Mexico, in a first phase. Within the framework of the Government's commitment to Mexico with the development of the Central American region, the following actions were carried out: • In January 2019, the PDI project for Central America was presented to Authorities of the Republic of Korea. Subsequently, this plan was presented within the framework of the visit to Mexico of the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of Japan. As a result, the Mexican International Cooperation Agency for Development (AMEXCID) and the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) currently work in the definition of a joint triangular cooperation agenda with Central America, based on the PDI. • On May 20, 2019, the President of the Republic talked via telephone with the Federal Chancellor of Germany, Angela Merkel, on the PDI. The President invited the German Government to join this project. • Likewise, on May 29, 2019, the President of Mexico met with the Director General of International Cooperation and Development of the European Commission (DG-DEVCO), with whom he talked about the European support for the PDI for Central America. • Based on dialogue between Mexico and the European Union, on June 20, 2019, the High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, Federica Mogherini expressed the support of the EU to the Integral Development Plan, affirming which represents an excellent opportunity to strengthen bilateral, regional and triangular cooperation.1 / • The Chancellor of Mexico conducted a work visit to the Chinese People's Republic on July 1 and 2, 2019, during which held high-level political meetings and participated in a business seminar to promote trade and productive investment flows. Mexico and China agreed on a roadmap for the next five years that will guide actions aimed at achieving economic relations reach their full potential, as well as greater cooperation in the fields of education, science and technology, innovation and the Cultural relationships Multilateral agencies and mechanisms • Mexico strengthened its relations with the countries of the Latin America and the Caribbean region, through its active participation in the Third Meeting of the Forum of the Latin American and Caribbean Development, held from 22 to 26 April 2019, at the headquarters of ECLAC, Santiago de Chile. This mechanism has the mandate to follow up with compliance with the Sustainable Development Goals of the 2030 Agenda at the regional level. • On January 31, 2019, a Virtual Meeting of the High Level Group of the Pacific Alliance (Mechanism Integrated by Chile, Colombia, Mexico and Peru), the occasion was reported that Mexico will continue to promote and strengthen this scheme as The main mechanism of regional integration and bridge approach to South America and Asia-Pacific. Likewise, Mexico's interest was reiterated for 1 / communiqué of the European Union: https://eeas.europa.eu/delegations/el-salvador/64433/declarción%C3%B3N-DE-LA-ALTA-REPRESENTANTE-Y -Viceresident-FEDERICA-MOGHERINI-IN-RELATION% C3% B3N-CON-EL_ES Continue to promote negotiations with candidates for Associate State (CEA). • On the other hand, on March 7, 2019, the Secretary of Foreign Affairs received the visit of the General Secretary of Caricom, Irwin Larocque, to deepen political dialogue on regional issues. During the meeting, the relevance of inviting all Venezuelan actors was agreed to approach the Montevideo mechanism, which is an ideal tool of propositive diplomacy and conciliatory, based on the principles of international law. • Mexico participated in the VIII Summit of Heads of State and Government of the Caribbean States Association (ACS), held in Managua, Nicaragua from 27 to 29 March 2019. The name of the summit was "uniting efforts in the Caribbean to face climate change. As a result, the Managua Declaration, Action Plan of the AEC 2019-2021 was issued. • From April 23 to 24, 2019 in Lima, Peru, the I Technical Forum of Cooperation of the Pacific Alliance and its observer States was held. In this meeting, the first portfolio of projects of the Alliance, which contains 35 proposals agreed by the four members of the Mechanism was presented. This portfolio includes four projects of cooperation offer by the Alliance, making it a receptor and cooperation offeror. • On May 9, 2019, Mexico City was the headquarters of the 49th. Meeting of the High Level Group (GAN) of the Pacific Alliance, the occasion at which the bases were established to grant Ecuador and Korea the quality of candidates for an associate state. • Also, on May 10, 2019, Mexico was the headquarters of the 21st. Meeting of the Council of Ministers of the Pacific Alliance. In this meeting, the requests of Azerbaijan and Kazakhstan were approved to be observer states of the mechanism. The cooperation fund was also worked on, which among its functions will have to meet proposals for cooperation of the Pacific Alliance. • During the I Meeting of national coordinators and cooperation responsible for the Ibero-American Conference, held in Madrid, Spain, on June 24 and 25, 2019, the Mexican delegation thanked the letter that the Agency sent to the President of Mexico, supporting the setting In the progress of the Integral Development Plan for Central America. ! Likewise, it began the work to formalize programs and initiatives supported by the Mexican Fund for International Cooperation for Development with Ibero-America and the conference cooperation mechanisms in favor of the PDI. • Mexico participated in 49th. Ordinary session of the General Assembly of the OAS, held from June 26 to 28, 2019 in Medellín, Colombia. The Mexican delegation reaffirmed the importance of multilateralism as an essential tool to deal with the common challenges facing the hemisphere. For instructions of the President of the Republic, the Secretary of Foreign Affairs and the Secretary of Finance and Public Credit represented Mexico in the 14th. Summit of the twenty group (G20), which was held on June 28, 2019 in Osaka, Japan. As a full member of the G20, Mexico participated in all segments of the Summit and contributed to the construction of consensus on the most pressing issues of the global economic and financial agenda. • During the Plenary Sessions of the Summit, the Mexican delegation promoted national priorities to eradicate corruption of public life, reduce poverty and inequality, accelerate economic growth and address climate change. A recognition was made to the leadership of our country as a co-president of the G20 anti-corruption working group, along with Japan. • The approach that Mexico adopted was also presented to meet the causes that cause migration, focused on promoting development in countries of origin. In this regard, the PDI was presented for Central America and the other G20 members were invited to support or join this regional initiative. • At the end of the Summit, the Osaka Declaration was adopted, in which agreements related to the priorities of Mexico were embodied. The need to maintain the migratory issue was agreed on the G20 agenda to continue the dialogue on its different dimensions and meet them transversally and collaboratively. Mexico assumed in January 2019 the annual coordination of Mikta, informal space for dialogue and concertation composed of Australia, Indonesia, the Republic of Korea, Turkey and our country. The central themes that will be promoted under Mexican leadership will be social development, global governance and a sustainable future. The Mexican Work Program stands out for its social content, approach to inclusion and commitment to multilateralism from three pillars: 1) Economic and Tourist Cooperation for Social Development; 2) strengthening of the multilateral system; and 3) a sustainable future by implementing Agenda 2030. During the 73rd. Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations (Agonu), Mexico promoted and defended national interests and priorities, and promoted the universal principles of international law, as well as issues of interest and collective benefit. • The Agonu adopted 302 resolutions from September 2018 to June 20, 2019. Of these, 16 resolutions were presented by Mexico regarding disarmament, human rights, drugs and international law, both individually and together with other countries. The Agonu adopted all the resolutions that Mexico presented, six by voting and 10 without a vote. In the period from December 1, 2018 as of June 30, 2019, 14 Mexican military and police officers continued to participate in five UN peace operations in Haiti, Colombia, Western Saha, Central African Republic and Mali. Likewise, Mexico participated in the Ministerial Conference on peacekeeping operations, held in New York on March 29 to reiterate its commitment to the Organization in this area. Mexico continued to promote that a greater number of countries ratify the Treaty on the prohibition of nuclear weapons, adopted under its leadership, which rated since January 2018, in order to achieve its prompt entry into force. Additionally, our country works tirelessly to maintain, strengthen and complement the non-proliferation and existing nuclear disarmament regime, as well as to implement its obligations and commitments regarding disarmament, non-proliferation and conventional weapon control. Mexico actively participated in the 62nd high level segment. session of the United Nations Narcotic Commission, which took place in Vienna, Austria, from March 14 to 22, 2019. In this, presented to the international community the renewed vision of the Government of Mexico to travel towards a policy of more comprehensive drugs, which prioritizes the public health approach and preventive vision, which is respectful of human rights and to attend the causes and consequences of the illicit market of drugs, violence and crime. Mexico participated in the Sixth Global Platform for Disaster Risk Reduction (Geneva, Switzerland, from May 13 to 17, 2019). The efforts of the Government of Mexico were shared to meet the displacement of persons and the importance of giving greater coherence to public policies in the areas of migration, climate change, human rights and disaster risk reduction. Mexico maintains an active foreign policy on human rights. As part of the work in international forums and mechanisms, the following stands out: • In the framework of 40o. Session of the Human Rights Council (CODH), from February 25 to March 22, 2019, in Geneva, Switzerland, Mexico presented three resolutions individually or group, on the fight against terrorism, and two more related to The rights of girls and children. • From March 13 to 22, the Mexican State participated in the 63rd. Session of the Commission of the Legal and Social Status of Women. Mexico prompted the inclusion in the final agreement of the promotion of sexual and reproductive and reproductive health, the elimination of multiple forms of discrimination and violence. • From April 22 to May 3, 2019, in New York, USA, the Government of Mexico participated in the 18th. Session of the Permanent Forum on indigenous issues, a space for dialogue in which it reiterated its support for the work of the forum for the protection of the rights of indigenous peoples. • In the 41er. CODH session, held from June 24 to July 12, 2019, Mexico presented a resolution on the protection of migrant rights, as well as a joint declaration on international migration. In addition, co-presented a resolution for the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women and girls. • From June 11 to 13, 2019, the Mexican State participated in the 12th. Conference of the States Parties of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, at the UN Headquarters in New York, USA. In this Forum, Mexico endorsed its commitment to the Convention and with Agenda 2030. • From December 1, 2018 as of June 30, 2019, the Mexican State assisted 11 work meetings of the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights (of 1 as of December 5, 2018, December 3, 2018, from 3 to 12 February 2019, and from May 4 to 7, 2019). In the same way, he attended five public hearings from 1 to 5 December 2018 and from 1 to 13 February 2019, as well as three hearings on May 9, 2019. Adoption of the Global Compact for Segura Migration, Ordered and regular (PMM) of the United Nations • Mexico participated in the Intergovernmental Conference for the adoption of the Global Compact for a safe, orderly and regular migration, held on December 10, 2018 in MarraQuech, Morocco. At this event, 164 Member States of the United Nations attended. Mexico together with Switzerland, co-presidated the process of construction of the covenant. From June 19 to 21, 2019, the Executive Director of the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), Henrietta Foree, made an official visit to Mexico in order to consolidate the actions that UN fund performs for benefit of girls, children and adolescents. On June 19 she opened a UNICEF field office in Tijuana, Baja California, and will add another in Tapachula, Chiapas. Mexico is committed to the reform of the United Nations development system, with a view to achieving greater coherence, coordination, transparency, accountability and better functioning within the United Nations system. • In that sense, our country has promoted the strengthening of the Economic and Social Council, as a member of it during this administration, as well as its subsidiary bodies, which will allow the effective implementation of Agenda 2030. Mexico will be one of the first countries to develop a new United Nations cooperation framework for sustainable development, which will be aligned with the five priorities of multilateral foreign policy, 1 / which will cause the United Nations contribution to the objectives to be strengthened National Development. • In order to comply with the commitment of our country with the implementation of Agenda 2030, on June 17, 2019, the first session of the National Council of Agenda 2030 was held, headed by the Mexican Chancellor, on behalf of the President of the Republic. • This event was attended by more than 500 representatives of all federal public administration, local governments, legislative power, international organizations, civil society, private sector and academy, in order to endorse the commitment that government actors have and not Government with the implementation of sustainable development policy, in its social, economic and environmental spheres. Blue Agenda. In December 2018, the first Minister of Norway, Erna Solberg, reiterated the invitation to the new Government of Mexico to continue as a member of the High Level Panel for the construction of a sustainable ocean economy. The President of the Republic agreed to resume the representation of Mexico and, in that sense, Mexico presented its interests in the 3rd. Meeting of the Sherpas (Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates, March 4, 2019) and at 4A. Meeting (Lisbon, Portugal, May 27, 2019). The panel is 1 / 1. Promote inclusive, open, prosperous and happy societies; 2. Advance in the achievement of sustainable development objectives (Agenda 2030) and combat climate change; 3. Promote gender equality and non-discrimination; 4. Be a consistent actor on human rights; and 5. Be a relevant actor in favor of disarmament, international security and sustainable peace. A unique group of 14 world leaders committed to developing, promoting and supporting solutions for the health of the oceans. In December 2018, Mexico participated in the 24th. Conference of the Parties (COP24) of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), which was carried out from December 2 to 15, 2018 in Katowice, Poland, where the program of the program was adopted Work of the Paris Agreement. Environment. Mexico actively participated in the following meetings: the 9A. Meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Inter-American Convention for the Protection and Conservation of Marine Turtles (CIT), in Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic, from June 12 to 14, 2019; and at the Fourth Session of the United Nations Environment Assembly (ANUA-4) in Nairobi, Kenya, in which the resolution presented by Mexico and Switzerland "Governance of mineral resources was approved. Food safety. The contest of international organizations is paramount to guarantee food security and promote sustainable agriculture. In this framework, Mexico has highlighted with the creation of the new Mexican Food Safety Agency (Segalmex), as a contribution to the objectives of the UN agenda 2030. • The object of Segalmex is to promote agri-food productivity and its distribution for the benefit of the poorest population in the country. In the same way, Mexico participated in the 49th. FAO Conference, where it was chosen to its new Director General, national of China, and with whom you will work in support of Segalmex. Human settlements. The Undersecretary of Multilateral Affairs and Human Rights was elected by the First President of the Urban World Assembly at 1st. Session of the Assembly of the United Nations Program for Human Settlements (UN-Habitat), held In Nairobi, Kenya, from May 27 to 31, 2019. This four-year position will give the opportunity to share with the international community the experience of Mexico in sustainable and inclusive urban development, as well as accompanying UN-Habitat during its Organic reform process. Candidatures. Between December 2018 and June 2019, Mexico's Multilateral Activism was reflected in its election to the following agencies: United Nations Commission for International Commercial Law; Executive Board of the World Food Program; UN Executive Board women; Narcotic Commission; Commission of the legal status and social status; and Governing Council of the International Institute for the Unification of Private Law: • Likewise, it continued with the following events: Board of Directors of the Climate Green Fund; Advisory Commission on administrative and budget matters; Adaptation Fund Board; Steering Committee of the Inter-American Commission of Women; Permanent forum for indigenous issues; Executive Board of the United Nations Program for Human Settlements, and Committee for the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and their Families. On June 27, 2019, the Member States of the Regional Group of Latin America and the Caribbean (GRULAC) unanimously supported Mexico's candidacy as a non-permanent member to the UN Security Council for the period 2021-2022. The support received represents a vote of trust and a responsibility for our country.1 / The elections will take place in June 2020. 1 / Mexico has been a member of the United Nations Security Council in 1946 and in periods 1980-81, 2002-2003 and 2009-2010. The defense and promotion of human rights is for Mexico a priority and a constitutional obligation. The laws of the nation, our opening to external scrutiny and the commitments made in various instruments of international law are the basis of our internal conduct on the subject. • That is why Mexico is resolved to take advantage of international organizations and their mechanisms for the observance and defense of human rights to promote a fair and democratic system. Respect, protection and guarantee of all rights are essential conditions of the health of our institutions. • Mexico maintains its long tradition of cooperation with international and regional human rights agencies and mechanisms in order to promote and protect, at national and international level, human rights, including the fight against non-discrimination and gender equality. At the same time, institutional construction and strengthening of inter-institutional coordination for the design and execution of policies are sought, in line with international standards. • On March 14, 2019, the Government of Mexico presented the response report of the Mexican State on follow-up to the recommendations of the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights, contained in its report "Situation of Human Rights in Mexico. To date, seven reports have been sent reporting progress in 80 recommendations on various issues in the field. • On April 25 and 26, 2019, the Mexican State appeared before the Committee against Torture of the United Nations, to sustain the 7th. Periodic report on the instrumentation of the Convention against Torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. • On June 3, Mexico presented its report on follow-up to the implementation of the Beijing Action Platform (PAB), result of the "Forum for the preparation of Mexico Report to the PAB and follow-up to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women (CEDAW) or, co-organized by The National Institute of Women, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and UN Women. • On July 1, Mexico presented its report to the monitoring phase of the third multilateral assessment of the monitoring mechanism of Belém do Pará (MESECVI), with actions aimed at eliminating violence against women and girls . • On August 8 and 9, 2019, the Mexican State appeared before the United Nations Committee against Racial Discrimination, for the suspension of the XVIII-XXI periodic report of Mexico on the implementation of the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial discrimination (ICERD). • Between December 1, 2018 and June 30, 2019, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, submitted 134 reports, in compliance with its conventional obligations to follow up on the implementation of precautionary measures, requests and cases ordered by the Inter-American System of human rights, of the OAS, and by the bodies of the Universal System for Human Rights Protection. • Mexico was the headquarters of the LXIV meeting of the Board of Directors of the Development of Indigenous Peoples of Latin America and the Caribbean (FILAC), which was held on January 16, 2019. On the occasion, the operating plan was approved Annual 2019 of the FILAC and the work carried out by the Technical Secretariat during the 2017-2018 management was reviewed. • Mexico participated in the I Meeting of National Coordinators and Cooperation Responsible for the Ibero-American Conference, which took place in Madrid, Spain, on June 24 and 25, 2019. During the meeting, Andorra in its capacity as Pro Tempore Secretariat of the Mechanism, presented the conceptual document of the XXVII Ibero-American Summit, "Innovation for Sustainable Development ð Objective 20 shall be held in that country in November 2020. International development cooperation of December 1, 2018 as of June 30, 2019, the Government of Mexico promoted international cooperation projects for the development of relevant agreements and activities between the Government of Mexico and international agencies and agencies for the construction and strengthening of institutional human rights capacities • April 8, the Government of Mexico and the High Commissioner of the United Nations for Human Rights (OHCHR), signed the Agreement To provide advice and technical assistance to the Commission for Truth and access to justice in the Ayotzinapa case. • On April 9, Mexico and OHCHR signed the agreement for training in human rights and operation according to international human rights standards to the National Guard. • On May 29, 2019, the Government of Mexico, the European Union and six UN agencies, signed and released the Spotlight initiative to eliminate violence against women and girls. • On June 20, 2019 in Mexico City, the first 2019 session of the Commission was held for the follow-up of the recommendations of the United Nations Rights Committee, with the presence of the Executive Director of the Fund of United Nations for Children (UNICEF). They allowed contributing to the sustainable development of the countries of Central America and the Caribbean, both bilaterally and in collaboration with our partners, in agricultural issues, fishing, water resources, forest and environmental resources, channeling resources, goods, technologies, knowledge and experiences towards The areas with the highest lag. Within the framework of the Mesoamerica integration and development project, the following activities were carried out: • Telecommunications. From March 11 to 15, 2019, the 1st was held. Face-to-face meeting of the Radiocommunication Committee, wherein the Federal Telecommunications Institute (IFT) presented Mexico's position for the World Radiocommunication Conference, so that the countries of Meso-America can manifest their position in the Commission's regional framework Inter-American Telecommunications (CITEL), and at the international level at the International Telecommunications Union (ITU). On the other hand, on April 25 and 26, 2019, the Regional Workshop on Information and Communication Technologies (ICT) and Discipacity-Digital Government and Liaison Meeting Digital Agenda (ADM) (ADM) was performed. • Energy. On June 26, 2019, the SRE was home to the LXI meeting of the Council Director of the Regional Electrical Market (CDMER). Likewise, on June 27, 2019, the High Level Meeting of the Central American Energy Sector was held, where it was talked about, among other issues, on the electricity interconnection of Mexico with the Regional Electricity of Central America. • Transport. In December 2018, the Mexican Agency for International Cooperation for Development, with the support of the Sectoral Council of Transport Ministers of Central America, covered the installation of the Inter-institutional Committee on Shortwide Maritime Transport (TMCD) of Guatemala, which recorded two Close meetings with representatives of the public and private sectors, in order to reactivate the TMCD pilot route with Mexico. • Commercial facilitation. On March 25 and 26, 2019, Tax Administration Service Experts provided training to Guatemala's customs officers, Honduras and the Republic of El Salvador in technical techniques and techniques in border risk management, coordination methods. of border control and load crossing. • Food and nutrition security. From March to June 2019, the following field visits were held within the framework of the Mesoamerica without hunger: Guatemala was visited from 25 to 28, where a meeting with members of the Departmental Food Technique was held Chiquim school and with mayors of the region, with the purpose of knowing the progress in the application of the Food Safety Law in the region. On April 8 to 10, in the Republic of El Salvador, the Caserío Community was visited El Guarumal, in Sensebra, where it was possible to see that its inhabitants have appropriated the rainwater capture systems (Scall) installed in School centers. ! From May 15 to 16, Mexico participated in the inauguration of two scalls installed in the indigenous Communities of Freedom and San Martín de Amacayacu, in the department of the Amazon in Colombia, technology that guarantees access to drinking and quality water to Hundreds of families. ! It highlights the realization of the IX Mixed Commission Amexcid-FAO, on June 27, in which it was determined that the Hungry Meso-America Program contributes to the execution of the PDI, fostering the roots to land through rural development and food security And nutritional. This contributes to closing the gaps Structural and mitigate the migration of the vulnerable rural population. • Health. On June 20 and 21, 2019, the IV Meeting of National Coordinators of the Mesoamerican Public Health System was held in the Republic of El Salvador, which presented the feasibility study of Mesoamerican master plans, with recommendations of Investment for obtaining financial resources for the financing of these plans. • Within the framework of the Mesoamerican Network of Integral Risk Management (RM-GIR), two events were carried out:! On March 21, 2019, the meeting of the guiding entities of national prevention systems took place in Costa Rica. Mitigation and disaster care of the Mesoamerican region, in which the consultations were presented within the framework of the Sustainability Strategy. On April 29 and 30, 2019, in Mexico City, an additional meeting of guiding entities was held in order to know the Fortresses of the Government of Mexico in Integral Management of Risk. On this occasion, the information contained in the RM-GIR and the differentiated accessories required was discussed. The project concluded the technical and communication phase, subtracting the sustainability component that will culminate shortly. On April 11 and 12, 2019, Mexico participated in the "XXX Meeting of Directors of International Cooperation of Latin America and the Caribbean: Coordination and Efficiency of International Cooperation with the Risk of Disasters by Threat of Origin Native, organized by the Permanent Secretariat of the Latin American and Caribbean economic system (SELA) and the Government of Panama. In this meeting experiences were exchanged on the cycle of the integral management of disasters risk and humanitarian assistance. Within the framework of the Infrastructure Fund for countries of Mesoamerica and the Caribbean (Yucatan Fund), Mexico has provided financial cooperation to both regions. Since its inception in 2012 and until June 2019, the Yucatan Fund has supported 17 projects in 12 countries, which has meant an increase of 134.7 million dollars, which have detonated projects worth 332.9 million dollars. • December 2018 as of June 2019, the advances of five infrastructure projects were followed up in Belize, Republic of El Salvador, Costa Rica and Panama, as well as the operational and financial closure process of Nine projects previously concluded. • On January 30, 2019, 5 million dollars were transferred, approved by the Technical Committee in 2018, for the México-Marigot Hospital Project in Dominica, whose activities began in February. • Stresses the celebration of the first extraordinary session of the Technical Committee of the Fund, on June 21, 2019, in which projects prepared by the Amexcid were presented, whose purpose is to help mitigate the causes of migration. • In this sense, on June 24, 2019, the Decree who moved the Coordination of Resources from the Yucatan Fund was published in the Official Gazette of the Federation Secretariat, expanding the objective of this funding scheme. On April 5, 2019, within the framework of the Mesoamerican Cooperation Program, a meeting was held with different Mexican dependencies to form the Biannual Program 2019-2020, composed of subjects such as forest monitoring and training specialized in fire management; the reactivation of the Climate Services Center for Mesoamerica and the Caribbean; and the training of experts in water on the part of the Mexican Institute of Water Technology. The Amexcid continued its contribution to cooperation with the Association of Caribbean States (ACS), through the project "Strengthening hydrographic capacities of the States of Mesoamerica and the Caribbean, with the technical support of the SEMAR. • On June 14, in Port of Spain, Trinidad and Tobago, the XXVII meeting of the Special Disaster Risk Reduction Committee of the AEC was carried out. In this meeting, the progress of the Caribbean Territorial Information Platform was presented for disaster prevention by the National Civil Protection Coordination. • In the framework of the Mexico-Caricom-FAO initiative "Cooperation for adaptation and resilience to climate change in the Caribbean, the countries of the region are supported to obtain financing for projects in the field. The initiative is technically managed by the Organization for Food and Agriculture (FAO) and it has been pre-approved three projects for the green climate fund, plus three others that are in the process of being prepared. • In the Caribbean progress was made in spatial data management for national reference frameworks. In the case of Cuba, for the strengthening of professional capacities in the management and conservation of zogenic resources. In the case of Haiti, for the reforestation of 10 thousand hectares in its territory. With regard to triangular cooperation for the benefit of Central America and the Caribbean, Mexico shared information on good practices with its European partners, such as the United Kingdom, Spain, Switzerland, Turkey and Netherlands, so that they are added to the actions of Triangular cooperation in favor of the Comprehensive Development Plan for Central America. • With the aim of addressing the causes of risky and forced migration of unaccompanied girls, children and adolescents (NNA), in Communities of Origin of Honduras, Guatemala and Republic of El Salvador, Phase II of the Prevention Program is implemented Of the unaccompanied migration of girls, children and adolescents in communities of origin of the North Triangle of Central America, funded by the Joint Fund Mexico-Germany. The project directly benefits 5 thousand NNA and 600 adults from ten pilot communities in all three countries. • While this project reached its end on April 30, 2019, through the Joint Fund for Technical and Scientific Cooperation Mexico-Spain, the Spanish International Cooperation Agency for Development (AECID) provided funding to prolong it up to 2021. • Mexico executes and coordinates 12 projects focused on environment, renewable energies and energy efficiency, economic development, environmental management, risk management and institutional strengthening, of which three benefit Guatemala, one respectively to Honduras, Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador, Paraguay, Argentina, two to Cuba and two to the Dominican Republic. • With France, the triangular project for the consolidation of the scientific and technical cooperation platform in arid zones is carried out and against climate change, which has been added Guatemala, Republic of El Salvador, Haiti, Cuba, Morocco and Niger , with an approximate cost of 4.4 million euros and whose headquarters is located in Agadir, Morocco. • Within the Joint Fund of Cooperation between Mexico and Uruguay, in June 2019, the execution of the 2016-2018 technical and scientific cooperation program concluded, made up of 12 cooperation projects, and initiated the operation of the 2019-2021 program. of the joint fund, made up of ten projects. • In the framework of triangular cooperation with Japan, it began the preparation of a project to support small producers from the Republic of El Salvador in the cultivation of Ajonjolí. It is also worked on the identification of projects in the production of tropical fruits no Traditional and technical vocational education with the countries of Northern Central America. Participation in multilateral forums for international cooperation for development. Mexico, through the Amexcid, continued its proactive participation in the definition of the global architecture of international cooperation for development. In this regard, it was participated in the second high-level conference on the United Nations on South-South cooperation, in the context of the 40th anniversary of the adoption of the Buenos Aires Plan of 1978 (Bap + 40). ! Also, on March 17 and 18, 2019, the Amexcid organized for the fourth consecutive year the withdrawal of the Monterrey Group of Friends, dedicated to the development fund for development, in close collaboration with Germany, Switzerland, Armenia, Bangladesh, Cabo Green, Chile, Ethiopia, Indonesia and the Czech Republic. • The Amexcid participated on behalf of Mexico at the fourth edition of FFD Forum, from April 15 to 18, 2019 in New York, USA. The AMEXCID continued to coordinate the implementation of 200 cooperation projects for development with the United Nations system in Mexico. • On the other hand, within the framework of the Ibero-American Conference, AMEXCID coordinated the implementation of 25 of 29 regional programs and participates in two more as a guest country, in cultural, educational, scientific, technological and social sectors. • May 15, 2019, the Collaboration Agreement was signed between public institutions responsible for cultural policy and foreign policy, for the formalization of the Cultural Diplomacy Council. ! The Council is composed of 20 Mexicans and remarkable Mexicans, who represent the highlight of our cultural identity, and will promote a greater promotion of the image of Mexico in the world, taking advantage of the experience and knowledge its members, as well as the work of Mexico's diplomatic and consular representations in 80 countries, and the Mexican presence in more than 250 international organizations. • On July 11, this year, the Tourist Diplomacy Council was created, as a collegiate body of opinion and consultation for the planning, design and implementation of tourism promotion strategies and the image of Mexico at the international level. This Council is made up of 28 outstanding entrepreneurs of the tourism sector and experts committed to the national tourism industry, while attending the support of the representations of Mexico abroad. Migration: Root solutions for Mexico Migration policy is a matter of national sovereignty. Faced with the current situation, the Federal Government launched strategies with the purpose of proceeding with the defense of Mexicans in the United States of America (USA) through the use of all legal instruments within our reach for the attention of migrants and The prevention of violations of the Rights of Mexicans in that neighboring nation. Defense of Mexicans in the United States of America The Government of Mexico launched the Migrant Protection Strategy in the USA, which aims to strengthen the consulting lawyers' network in that country to provide legal advice to the largest number of connationals. From December 1, 2018 as of June 30, 2019, the number of lawyers with this function increased from 55 to 138. • Also, attention was strengthened to vulnerable groups, through the training of 100 employees of the consular network and the Chancellery on the use of consular specialized care protocols to unaccompanied girls, children and adolescents; victims of gender violence; and victims of trafficking in persons, and 300 consular officials were trained in the US, to improve their skills in comprehensive care for victims of hate crimes. • In addition, in April 2019, the National Institute of Indigenous Languages ​​trained 293 Mexican officials of the Consular Network in the US and Canada in terms of sensitization on ISIST and rights of indigenous peoples. In terms of consular protection and assistance, December 2018 as of June 2019, the following actions were carried out: • 111,806 cases of protection and human rights assistance and criminal law, migratory, civil, labor and administrative, were attended: 108,387 cases were reported by the consular network of Mexico in the US and 3.419 more for Mexican representations in the rest of the world. • The timely consular intervention allowed the repatriation of 5,433 connationals, of which 436 were sick people, 4,514 minors and 483 in a situation of vulnerability. • 2,226 cases of transfers of remnants to national territory were recorded, in which support or administrative management was provided, in addition, economic aid was provided by more than 18 million pesos to serve 1,193 cases. • Likewise, Mexico's consular network abroad granted economic support at 5,174 connationals in a situation of vulnerability. • On the other hand, the legal assistance program for Mexican persons through external legal advice in the US attended 2,511 cases. • Within the framework of the Legal Assistance Program in cases of capital punishment in the US, 164 cases were studied, of which 30 did not qualify for inclusion, and the imposition of capital punishment was avoided or reversed in 18 cases. Currently, 64 Mexicans face criminal proceedings that could derive in the imposition of a capital punishment, while 52 Mexicans are sentenced to this penalty. • Through the Gender Equality Program, the Consular Network of Mexico in the world, 3,236 women and 889 victims of abuse were attended to; 483 Mexicans were repaid to vulnerability and consular assistance was provided to 107 connational victims of trafficking in persons, as well as 1,757 women deprived of their freedom. • The operation of the 51 comprehensive care windows for women in the consular network was strengthened From Mexico in the USA, which provide attention to the needs of women through offering health programs, legal assistance and education. These provided consular assistance and protection in 1,953 cases. • In addition, the representations of Mexico activated its emergency care protocols before terrorist attacks, accidents and natural disasters in different parts of the world. The preventive tasks of the embassies gave timely information to Mexican people who were at the scene and their families in Mexico. The protocols were activated in New Zealand, by a terrorist attack in March 2019; In Ethiopia, by a plane crash in the same month; and in India, by multiple terrorist attacks in Sri Lanka in April 2019. • In the framework of the Temporary Agricultural Program Mexico-Canada, from January to June 2019, the Consular Network of Mexico in that country provided assistance and protection Consular 20,859 Mexicans who participated in the program working on Canadian farms. In terms of family law, December 2018 as of June 2019, the following actions were carried out: • 153 new cases of minors, which involved 208 girls, children and adolescents; and 191 cases were concluded that were in process, with 277 minors recovered. • Also, 134 new cases of alimony were processed; Therefore, there are currently 2,115 active records, of which 94% are vented to US authorities. • In addition, 14 certificates of adoption made under the 1993 Hague Convention were issued. In total, 14 minor Mexicans enjoy a family life abroad. • Mexican consulates in the USA gave high 873 new custody and parental authority processes, of which 179, consular services have been completed through the US Consular Offices in the USA, from December 1, 2018 to June 30 of 2019, 3,024,595 documents were issued, of which 45.8% were compulsive of documents; 23.4% passports; 16.4% Consular registration; 7.4% Acts of the Civil Registry; 4.7% Processing requests from the National Electoral Institute and 2.3% visas, notarial acts and other services. • It was issued throughout the consular network 199,520 certified copies of civil registry minutes and 143,358 requests were processed to obtain the credential to vote. ! The mobile consulates and other special days were reinforced, which allowed, from December 1, 2018 as of June 30, 2019, services will be provided to more than 317 thousand people and 380,972 documents will be delivered: 81,148 in mobile consulates; 232,267 in consulates on wheels; 67,194 at Saturdays Sabatinas, Dominicals or Inhabile Days and 363 in documentation activities during the week's consular headquarters. ! Through the Mexitel Consular Appointments System, 1,478,808 appointments were scheduled and 4,891,825 calls were treated. With regard to consular training, three online courses were taught with 179 participating officials. ! To strengthen the consular and diplomatic network, three honorary consulates were established, in Phnom Penh, Cambodia; Bucaramanga, Colombia and Skopje, Macedonia and the Honorary Consulates in Khartoum, Sudan, were closed; Lighthouse, Portugal, and Wattens, Austria. In terms of community linking, from March 17 to April 13, with the support of the consular network, 13 consultative forums were conducted with Mexican communities in the same number of cities of the US, in order to collect proposals and recommendations that will enrich the tasks of the Institute of Mexicans abroad during this administration. • From June 21 to 23, 2019 in Ottawa, Canada, the first "Global Forum: Meeting Point for the Mexican Community was held, to promote a close, active and direct relationship between government agencies, public figures of Mexico and the Own Mexican communities that lie in Canada. • With the community windows, it is covered in the strategy of empowerment and protection of the Mexican Community in the US. From January to June 2019, the health windows attended to more than 750 thousand people; The educational guidance windows at almost 110 thousand people, and financial advisory windows to more than 155 thousand people. • During the first half of 2019, 60% of the budget of the IME Scholarship Strategy (10 million pesos) was dedicated to supporting community places. With the remaining resources you will support young people in higher education. • The second week of Binational Education (SBE) was carried out from April 29 to May 5, 2019, with the participation of more than 160 thousand people and 1,127 activities were carried out to give information about educational opportunities, both in the USA as in Mexico, in coordination with 700 allied organizations. ! On April 30, the 2019 version of the educational guide was published for the Mexican communities in the USA, in order to publicize the options to conclude or give continuity to studies or, where appropriate, enrich the remote studies in Mexico; As well as access to educational materials, information about scholarships, studies revalidation, digital options, courses and technical careers, from the basic level to the superior. As of June 30, the digital format of the guide has been downloaded more than 2,500 times in the USA. ! In order to support BILINGY teaching educational activities for the student population of Mexican origin in the USA, within the framework of the Collaboration Agreement signed on February 23, 2018 between the SRE and the National Commission of Free Textbooks, in May 2019 was published the corresponding call to this year to distribute five thousand book collections to the institutions of that country that request it. Immigration policy The migration policy of the Government of Mexico is carried out in congruence with national and international mechanisms for the defense of human rights. Faced with the constant displacements of people from the North Triangle countries of Central America (Guatemala, Honduras and the Republic of El Salvador), it is awarded opening and flexibility by rethinking strategies for care and humanitarian aid in favor of children, women and men and intensify the campaigns against xenophobic and racist postures. Mexico, as a country of transit and because of its geographical position, which turns out to be strategic in relation to the US, must project favorable conditions for the displacement of migrants, through public policies aimed at creating wellness and safety conditions for the communities of origin, and Regional projects of generation of employment sources. In coordination with state governments, civil society groups and human rights defending agencies, the creation of development poles, the building of a welfare state and the implementation of peacebuilding processes towards the local and migrant population are analyzed. . Because the current administration began in a context of high migratory flows, the Strategies and institutional actions to safely attend such flows, mainly from Guatemala, Republic of El Salvador and Honduras. Specifically, 35,977 regional visitor cards were issued for countries of the countries with which we shared border: 33,880 (94.2%) for Guatemalan migrants and 2,097 (5.8%) for Belican migrants. • In the migratory situation, Mexico has promoted permanent dialogue with the countries of the North Triangle of Central America, which assumed the commitment to improve consular protection to its nationals. At the same time, Mexico promoted to streamline the attention of refuge requests. • Within the framework of the integration of the Integral Development Plan, between the Republic of El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras and Mexico, the project "Global Action to improve the recruitment of migrants, reframed. • Mexico established the mechanism of consultation on migratory matters to facilitate the interaction between Mexican agencies in the subject and the embassies of the three countries to ensure that attention to migrants in national territory is based on respect for human rights. • The Comprehensive Commission for Migrant Girls, Children and Adolescents and Refugee Statement, implemented the comprehensive protection route of rights of girls, children and adolescents in a migration situation; In addition, actions are coordinated and executed to guarantee their human rights. • The Immigration Policy Advisory Council met in working groups for the attention of the extraordinary flow of Central American migrants; for the implementation of alternatives to accommodation for girls, children and adolescents in a mobility situation; and for the follow-up of the objectives of the Global Compact for a safe, orderly and regular migration. • Through the child protection officers (OPIs) of December 1, 2018 as of June 30, 2019, 5,006 unaccompanied Mexican minors were served by USA and 7,226 minors were served foreign migrants. Accompanied, of which 6,899 were Central Americans. ! Likewise, the OPIs attended 5,079 unaccompanied Mexican minors repatriated by the US, and a total of 4,901 unaccompanied foreign migrants, of which 4,849 were Central Americans. • Before the growing presence of undocumented people in the country, the Mexican government instructed to strengthen campaigns against discrimination. The National Council to prevent discrimination (Conapred) gave the awareness course "Migration and Xenophobiaó, to 927 people (public servants of the three Government Orders, Academic Institutions, Judicial and Legislative Branch and Civil Society Organizations). • It was possible to expand the validity of work visas with the US; Return assisted between Mexico and Guatemala, Honduras, Republic of El Salvador and Nicaragua; As well as the establishment of the care route of the migratory labor program between Mexico, Republic of El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras. • through the beta groups of protection to migrants, belonging to the National Migration Institute, 117,272 national and foreigners were aimed at; 18 lost migrants were located; Social assistance was offered at 83,928, legal advice was provided to 27; 1,416 migrants were rescued and first aid was given to 117 that presented some injury. • In addition, the Government of Mexico reinforced regional agreements and maintains the Participation of federal instances in the projection of the migratory phenomenon. • At the Regional Conference on Migration, Regional Forum composed of 11 countries, 1 / Mexico was incorporated into international migration management and information exchange schemes to improve regional cooperation and reinforce the links between migration and development. • Mexico was the headquarters of the Regional Workshop for the Labor Plan against the Illicit Trafficking of Migrants 2019-2025, composed of international agencies of the United Nations, International Red Cross, Central American Integration System, Regional Network of Civil Organizations for Migration and The International Organization for Migration. • Because Mexico has been a country of refuge and asylum of persons in search of new opportunities or better living conditions, the Government managed to link the regional integral framework for the protection and solutions (MIRPS) of the United Nations High Commissioner for the Refugees with the Regional Conference on Migration. (CRM). This with the aim of promoting regional dialogue, as well as the exchange of ideas and experiences for joint reflection and cooperation in migratory issues of common interest. • The Mexican Refugee Aid Commission (COMO), as a coordinator of the MIRPS Pro-Tempore Presidency, presented progress from its management within the framework of the Regional Consultation Group on Migration (GRCM) of the CRM , which was held in the city of Guatemala on June 25 and 26, 2019. • Additionally, it was participated in the process of Quito on Mobility of Venezuelan citizens 1 / Belize, Canada, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Republic of El Salvador , USA, Guatemala, Honduras, Mexico, Nicaragua and Panama. In the region, in which good practices have been exchanged to meet the causes of the high flows of migration of Venezuelans in recent years. • In October 2019, the installation of the monitoring mechanism was carried out on recommendations on migratory matters and United Nations human rights bodies, in order to ensure compliance with six recommendations issued by the Committee for the Protection of All rights Migrant workers and their families. • For its part, the Ministry of National Defense provided support, with 51 military elements, through the establishment of two community kitchens and an intendency cell, elaborating and distributing 119,146 rations to migrants from South America in its passage through our country. • An operating coordinating center was integrated in Tapachula, Chiapas for the border with Guatemala and Belize, where the greatest flow of immigrants with 10 regional coordinations (seven at the southern border and three in the isthmus of Tehuantepec, Oaxaca) is concentrated. • In this border, 10,500 elements of the National Guard, distributed as follows: 2 thousand in the strip of containment of the Isthmus; 6,500 in the internment routes (coast, center and gulf) and 2 thousand in the border strip; as well as 19 vessels on the sea and river routes (Gulf, Caribbean and Pacific). • From June 10 to 30, 2019, 19,460 migrants were rescued on this border. Of these, 14,202 are adults (10,138 men and 4,064 women) and 5,258 minors (3,063 men and 2,195 women). • An operations coordinating center was integrated into Monterrey, Nuevo León with the purpose of COADYUVAR in the control of the migratory flow. The military deployment was carried out as follows: 2,784 on the northwest route, 3,283 on the center route and 5,068 on the northeast route. Additionally, 225 migration agents were deployed. • On June 30, 2019, the National Guard entered into function with a total of 4,500 elements distributed in 10 regional coordinations located in 38 border municipalities (with 450 elements in each of them). • Regarding migrants rescued by the authorities on this border, from June 15 to 30, 2019, 1,816 adults (1,130 men and 686 women), as well as 1,083 minors (631 men and 452 women) have a total of 2,899. • Currently, in the country there are 24,092 migrants, distributed in 16 Federal entities of the Republic: Migrants distributed by Federal EntityCentity Migrants 24,092 Baja California 6,443 Chihuahua 6,177 Tamaulipas 3,714 Chiapas 3,615 Veracruz 1,509 Coahuila 894 Sonora 431 Nuevo León 426 Mexico City 307 San Luis Potosí 195 Tabasco 186 Oaxaca 65 Sinaloa 59 Puebla 44 Durango 15 Guanajuato 12 Source: Secretariat of National Defense.! Freedom and equality A commitment of the President of the Republic is to face the serious human rights crisis that the country has and to face the demands of truth, justice, repair and not repetition of the victims. Has reiterated broad respect for human rights, deploying public policy actions and strengthening institutions to ensure and protect the rights of all persons regardless of their identity of gender, age, social condition or health, ethnicity or nationality, religion or Political posture, identity or sexual orientation, marital status or if you have any disability; For the president of Mexico, it is a cardinal to recognize and protect the dignity of all people and guarantee full exercise of their rights. Given the crisis with which the country was received, the President of the Republic has instructed priority to human rights and social justice. Therefore, innovative actions have been designed and implemented and efforts in the field have been redoubled. It has been a period of high activity for little by little to face the lag. For this, it has been walked by the hand with victims and civil society, as well as international organizations. The 43 missing students of Ayotzinapa The Government of Mexico assumed the commitment to clarify the case of the 43 missing students of the normal Rural Isidro Burgos of Ayotzinapa, symbolic for the magnitude of his grievances, but also by the modus operandi of the perpetrators, as well as As for the obstruction of truth and justice by the previous government. By presidential decree (December 4, 2018) the Commission for Truth and Access to Justice was created in the Ayotzinapa case. With the Decree, the President of the Republic instructed the federal authorities, within the framework of its powers, to establish the necessary material, legal and human conditions in order to strengthen the exercise of the right of victims of the victims of the Ayotzinapa case They have to know the truth and that justice is done. The Commission is presided over the Undersecretary of Human Rights, population and migration and integrated by officials of the Foreign Affairs Secretariats (SRE), and Public Credit (SHCP), as well as by the students' mothers. Likewise, the Secretariat of Health (SS), the Executive Committee on Victims (CEAV) and the National Search Commission (CNB), as well as, human rights defending organizations, the office of the High Commissioner United Nations for Human Rights (OHCHR) and the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights (IACHR). The commission's commission is to create a multidisciplinary autonomous work team to provide direct and indirect victims of the Ayotzinapa case and its advisors from the material and human resources necessary to strengthen the exercise of the right that have as a coadjuvants in the investigations carried out by the Prosecutor's Office, as well as support in the search for truth and justice. For this reason, the Commission has promoted the necessary actions for the Attorney General's Office (FGR) to receive the investigations of the case and has made multiple field search actions. Likewise, it has given comprehensive attention to the survivors and the relatives of the disappeared, among other things. Among the actions carried out by the Commission, highlights: • The signing of the Agreement that creates the Special Cooperation and Technical Assistance Mechanism of the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights by this Agency and the Mexican State. The mechanism is responsible for verifying and attending the recommendations issued by the group Interdisciplinary of independent experts (GIEI) and the special follow-up mechanism Ayotzinapa (table) in relation to the precautionary measure MC 409-14, in terms of search, research, attention to victims and structural measures and of non-repetition. • The agreement signed between the Mexican State and the High Commissioner of the United Nations for Human Rights, Michelle Bachelett, with the aim of providing advice and assistance to the Ayotzinapa Commission. • The Historical Meeting between the Commission and the Secretary and High Commands of the National Defense, as well as with the former Governor and the former Guerrero Procurator. In the field of procurement of justice, all research folders of the Ayotzinapa case were integrated in the Prosecutor's Office specializing in Research of Enforced Disappearance crimes; the sub-compurated specialized in organized crime investigation; The unit for the research of the Ayotzinapa case of the General Prosecutor's Office of the Republic and in the Attorney General of Justice of the State of Guerrero. On the other hand, the elaboration of a matrix was initiated with all the research lines of the General Prosecutor of the Republic, the National Human Rights Commission, the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for the Human Rights, the investigation office of the case equal to the Attorney General of the Republic and the Argentine team of Forensic Anthropology. Likewise, the Special Research and Litigation Unit was created for the Ayotzinapa case, assigned to the Office of the Attorney General of the Republic, through agreement published in the Official Journal of the Federation on June 26, 2019. That same day it was appointed Omar Gómez Trejo Terjo Holder of the unit, with broad endorsement of relatives. The prosecutor will be responsible for investigating and pursuing crimes and, in the case of it, concluding criminal proceedings related to the events of the disappearance of the 43 students. The actions carried out to reach the truth of the Ayotzinapa case and promote justice are fundamental to heal individual and collective wounds, as well as guarantee the non-repetition of the fact. Search and identification of people In recent years Mexico has resentful the negative effects of the failed strategies of the organized crime combat, whose results impacted the atomization of drug traffickers causing local confrontation and the proliferation of violence practices, mainly disappearance of people. It is a priority of the President of the Republic to face this systematic phenomenon and the serious search crisis and forensic identification. Given this, various civil society agencies requested the support of the authorities for the location of their relatives, adopting the commitment to contribute with the search and identification processes. Thus, on March 24, 2019, the President of the Republic reinstalled the national search system of missing persons, from which, the National Search Commission is the centerpiece, as an executive secretariat. With this, progress was made in compliance with the federal government's commitment to disappearance and search for persons and, in turn, it was urged the federal entities to comply with their commitments and obligations and join the strategy by creating local commissions of search. As of June 30, 2019, 24 local search commissions were created; 18 of them already have a named holder. The resources are of the utmost importance for the commissions to perform their functions. One of the components of the authorized budget to the National Search Commission, are the Resources for subsidies, which will be delivered to the federal entities through local commissions. As of June 30, 2019, 210 million pesos for local commissions are authorized. Of these have been assigned 90.5 million pesos to the Commissions of Coahuila, State of Mexico, Jalisco, Nayarit, Nuevo León, San Luis Potosí, Tamaulipas, Veracruz and Zacatecas. In accordance with the faculties established in the General Law of Enforced Disappearance of Persons, Disappearance committed by individuals and the search system, one of the pillars Founding of the National Search Commission is the accompaniment of the families of persons missing in the Immediate, long-term and historical search. In this sense, activities have been carried out: admission to criminal, search operations in life, meetings with family and authorities, as well as judicial search and search for human identification. In the interior of the Commission, a specialized unit was created in search of people victims of enforced disappearance during the so-called dirty war. Also, an inter-institutional work group was created between the National Search Commission and the Attorney General's Office of the Republic. On the other hand, the revision of records and the proactive search for contact with representative, family and specialized researchers were carried out. In accordance with the provisions of the law, the National Search Commission is the entity in charge of the design and preparation of regional search plans. The "Noreteó Regional Plan, in the states of Tamaulipas, Nuevo León, Coahuila and Durango, in collaboration with national and international organizations such as the National Human Rights Commission, the International Committee of the Red Cross, is being designed and developed , the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights and the Office of the High Commissioner of the United Nations for Human Rights. By instruction of the Undersecretariat of Human Rights, Population and Migration, the National Search Commission created a national registry of clandestine pits. With data as of June 15, 2019, 207 clandestine inhumation sites are registered, being the states of Sinaloa, Guerrero, Veracruz, Chihuahua and Colima those with the highest incidence. For its part, there are 426 clandestine talents with the highest incidence in the States of Veracruz, Colima, Sinaloa and Sonora. Finally, 551 bodies are registered in clandestine talents being the states of Colima, Sinaloa and Jalisco the most incidence. One of the main obligations of the National Search Commission is the elaboration and updating of the National Registry of missing and not localized persons. Within the diagnosis made, it is noted that it was not updated since April 2018 (with some exceptions), and the updates that were made on paper or via email. Consequently, it is working on an electronic system for the prosecutors to register any missing or not localized person; That is, of every person who knows the fate or whereabouts of him, regardless of the reasons for his disappearance or not location. Likewise, assistance was provided to share the information that the authorities register in their systems. Finally, in collaboration with the General Prosecutor's Office of the Republic, a diagnosis was made of federal and state medical-forensic capacities and various actions are expected to address the forensic crisis by urgently strengthening institutions. Construction of peace and political prisoners The extreme violence that the country has experienced in recent decades together with the interference in the communities of ccallium and authoritarian and corrupt governments has created, among other things, serious social conflicts between Mexican peoples and a breaking of the social fabric. For this reason, for the President of the Republic, it is essential to address these root problems and promote novel peace construction processes, peaceful resolution of conflicts and reconstruction of social tissue. Therefore, the Secretariat of Government in support of the Government of the State of Chiapas, promoted a process of pacification between the communities of Aldama and Chenalhó, which derived in the signing of the Non-Aggression Convention by the Governor of the State and the authorities of the two communities on June 4, 2019. Thus, after a conflict that lasted more than 40 years, it was possible that the representatives agreed, as of the date of the firm of the Convention, resolve through dialogue and conciliation, any Conflict that may arise between its communities, in order to reduce levels of violence, avoid the displacement of people who live in these municipalities and encourage conciliation in the region. Likewise, agreements between settlers, traditional authorities and local government for the establishment of a route that will end the conflict in the communal goods of Cacahuatepec, Guerrero. On the other hand, so far from Sixenio, 45 political prisoners have been released. These actions, priority for the President of the Republic, have been fundamental to distinguish the relationship between population and government, rebuild the social fabric of the communities that were affected by the deprivation of freedom to their members and, in short, support the Peace construction processes. The people released are water defenders, the territory, natural resources or opposition to the educational reform of the last government. On the other hand, the Secretariat for the Government for Instruction of Mexico President, attended victims of violence for shares of organized crime of the communities of Rincón de Chautla and Zacapexco, belonging to the municipality of Chilapa de Álvarez, Guerrero, carrying out Diligenties with different secretaries. The permanence of a military detachment was achieved in the area and the establishment of a table with state authorities for the attention of the matter. Finally, the Undersecretariat of Human Rights, population and migration carried out tasks to meet the crisis of forced internal displacement. An inter-institutional work table was installed to analyze the topic and comparative information have been collected with the purpose of promoting a law that recognizes and stipulates guidelines for the care of the phenomenon, which for many years was minimized and was never attended. In this area, victims of forced internal displacement were entitled integrally, seeking to guarantee the right to repair the damage and set the foundations for peace processes that may, in the future, allow people to return to their places of origin. It highlights the attention of 80 displaced families from the municipality of Leonardo Bravo, Guerrero, which was provided Urgent Humanitarian Aid, Housing, Supports for the Education of Children and Adolescents and Food. On the other hand, humanitarian aid was provided to the Che Guevara community of the municipality of Villa de Zaachila, of the State of Oaxaca. This included support for food, cleaning items and health sessions. Recovery of memory as part of actions to appoint and recognize the serious violations of human rights perpetrated in the historical period 